
Saving up to 60%
of
water usage
fo
elbaT
STNETNOC
Our Group’s Overview
NTPC at a Glance 04
Performance Highlights 10
Letter to Shareholders 16
(cid:39)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:72)(cid:70)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:86)(cid:760)(cid:3)(cid:51)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:807)(cid:79)(cid:72) 21
Senior Management Team 25
Innovating for Sustainability
Introduction to Capitals and the Value Creation Model 26
Stakeholder and Materiality Assessment 28
Risk and Governance 36
Ethics and Vigilance at NTPC 41
NTPC’s Capitals 44
Performance Snapshot 130
Task Force on Climate Related Financial Disclosures 144
WEF - Stakeholder Capitalism Matrix 145
Statutory Disclosures
Directors’ Report 147
Management Discussion and Analysis Report 176
Report on Corporate Governance 208
Annual Report on CSR activities 249
Business Responsibilty and Sustainability Report 255
Secretarial Audit Report 294
Financial Statements
Standalone Financial Statements (SFS) 296
Independent Statutory Auditors’ Report 447
CAG Comments on SFS 467
Employee Cost Summary 469
Revenue Expenditure on Social Overheads 470
Consolidated Financial Statements (CFS) 471
Independent Statutory Auditors’ Report 647
CAG Comments on CFS 658
Notice of 48th Annual General Meeting 661
Content Index
Independent Assurance Report 674
GRI Index/ UN SDG Index 683
‘SUPPORT GREEN INITIATIVE‘
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs has takes a “Green Initiative in the Corporate Governance“ by
Annual General Meeting
allowing paperless compliances by the companies and has issued circulars stating that service
Day & Date : Thursday, 29.08.2024 of notice/ documents including Annual Reports can be send by e-mail to its members. To support
this green initiative of the Government in full measure, members who have not registered their
Time : 10:30 A.M.
e-mail addresses, so far, are requested to register their e-mail address, in respect of electronic
Venue/Mode : Video Conferencing
holdings with the Depository through their concerned Depository Participants. Members who
(VC)/ Other Audio-
hold shares in physical form are requested to get their e-mail address registered with Beetal
Visual Means (OAVM)
Financial & Computer Services Private Limited, RTA of the Company
About the Report
Reference Information
“
“
NTPC’s Integrated Annual Report is designed to transparently convey our value creation journey to all stakeholders.
This report presents clear and comparable information on key financial and non-financial matters, alongside our
Registered Office NTPC’s Subsidiary Companies
strategic plans, ESG roadmap, and holistic approach to sustainable development.
(as on 31st March, 2024)
NTPC Bhawan
SCOPE Complex, 7, Institutional Area, • NTPC Vidyut Vyapar Nigam Limited
Approach Boundary of the Report
Lodi Road, New Delhi-110003 • NTPC Electric Supply Company Limited
The NTPC Integrated Annual Report has been prepared in This report encompasses the business activities of all entities Registrar & Share Transfer Agent for • Bhartiya Rail Bijlee Company Limited
accordance with the International Integrated Framework, within the NTPC group, unless specified otherwise. However, • Patratu Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Limited
Equity Shares
now part of the IFRS Foundation. The information
for sustainability indicators it includes NTPC Limited’s • NTPC Mining Limited
presented in this Report pertains to the period from April 1,
Beetal Financial & Computer Services Private Limited, • North Eastern Electric Power Corporation Limited
business activities and its Joint Ventures & Subsidiaries,
2023 to March 31, 2024. Beetal House, 3rd Floor, 99, Madangir, Behind LSC, • THDC India Limited
focusing on Electricity Generation (Thermal, Renewables,
Frameworks, guidelines, and Near Dada Harsukhdas Mandir, New Delhi - 110 062 • NTPC EDMC Waste Solutions Private Limited
Hydro), Consultancy, Business Development, NETRA, and
• NTPC Green Energy Limited
Contact person : Shri Punit Mittal or
standards Energy Trading pertaining to operational power generation
• Ratnagiri Gas and Power Private Limited
Shri Ratan Kumar Karna
plants located in India. Noteworthy changes in installed power
This Integrated Annual Report has been prepared with Company Secretary
generation capacity during this period are outlined in the Phone : 011-29961281 – 83, 26051061
reference to the following:
manufactured capital section of the report. and 26051064
• Ms. Ritu Arora
• GRI Standards 2021, and further complies along with the Email : ntpc@beetalfinancial.com
EUSS Audit/ Assurance of the Report Auditors
Depositories
• WEF - Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics The standalone and consolidated annual financial statements 1. M/s Vinod Kumar & Associates
National Securities Depository Limited
• Business Responsibility and Sustainability Reporting have been audited by statutory Auditors. Non-financial 2. M/s Goyal Parul & Co.
Central Depository Services (India) Limited
(BRSR) based on the National Guidelines for information in this report has been independently assured 3. M/s M C Bhandari & Co.
Responsible Business Conduct (NGRBC) by M/s Bureau Veritas (India) Private Limited. A reasonable Shares listed at 4. M/s J K S S & Associates
assurance was conducted as per ISAE 3000 Standards on 5. M/s Agasti & Associates
• United Nations Global Compact Principles (UNGCP) National Stock Exchange of India Limited
select non-financial disclosures reported based on GRI 2021 6. M/s S N Kapur & Associates
BSE Limited
• Companies Act, 2013
standards and BRSR core requirements.
• Indian Accounting Standards, the Securities and
Forward-looking statements
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 Certain sections of this report contain forward-looking
• Secretarial Standards. statements. These can typically be identified by terminology
such as ‘believes,’ ‘expects,’ ‘may,’ ‘shall,’ ‘could,’ ‘should,’
‘intends,’ ‘estimates,’ ‘plans,’ ‘assumes,’ and ‘anticipates,’
or similar phrases, including negative variations. These
statements are subject to specific risks and opportunities that
could be beyond NTPC’s control or based on NTPC’s current
beliefs and assumptions about future events. Consequently,
the actual performance of the company may differ from the
expected outcomes and performance implied in this report.
Feedback
Report Methodology
NTPC appreciates feedback from all stakeholders. For any
Uniform methodologies are used to collect performance
additional information regarding the IAR Report, please reach
data at all NTPC group stations. The data is processed at
out to the addresses given below:
each station using universally accepted approaches for
Chief Sustainability Officer
measurement, calculation, and analysis. The measurement
methods in this report remain unchanged from the Engineering Office Complex (EOC)
previous report unless specified. The report’s content and NTPC Limited Sector - 24, Noida - 201 301 (U.P.)
Email - sustainability@ntpc.co.in
aspect boundary have been reviewed and approved by the
Phone: (+91) 120 – 4946611
company’s top management.
NTPC at a glance
4 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 5
6 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 7
8 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 9
* NTPC Standalone ** NTPC Group
10 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 11
NTPC Group Organography (Subsidiaries & JVs)
Subsidiaries (10)*
COAL MINING POWER TRADING
NTPC Mining Ltd. (100% ) NTPC Vidyut Vyapar Nigam Ltd. (100%)
POWER GENERATION SERVICES
North Eastern Electric
THDC India Ltd. NTPC Electric Supply NTPC EDMC Waste
Power Corporation Ltd.
(74.496%) Company Ltd. (100%) Solutions Private Ltd.
(100%)
(74% )
Bhartiya Rail Bijlee NTPC Green Energy
Company Ltd. (74%) Ltd. (100%)
Ratnagiri Gas and
Ptratu Vidyut Utpadan
Power Private Ltd.
Nigam Ltd. (74%)
(86.49%)
*Direct Subsidiaries
Joint Ventures (16)
Transformers and Electricals Kerala
Ltd. (44.60%)
NTPC BHEL Power Projects
CIL NTPC Urja Pvt. Ltd. (50%)
Pvt. Ltd. (50%)
Coal Mining Equipment Manufacturing
Power Generation Fertilizers Power Services
Aravali Power Company Meja Urja Nigam Pvt. Hindustan Urvarak & Utility Powertech Energy Efficiency
Pvt. Ltd. (50%) Ltd. (50%) Rasayan Ltd. (29.67%) Ltd. (50%) Services Ltd. (39.252%)
NTPC Tamil Nadu Energy Trincomalee Power NTPC GE Power National High Power
Company Ltd. (50%) Company Ltd. (50%) Services Pvt. Ltd. Test Laboratory Pvt. Ltd.
(50%) (12.5%)
NTPC SAIL Power Anushakti Vidhyut
Company Ltd. (50%) Nigam Ltd. (49%)
Bangladesh - India Jhabua Power Ltd.
Friendship Power (50%)
Company Pvt. Ltd. (50%)
12 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 13
Corporate Objectives
Vision
Policy and Objectives Financial Soundness Sustainability and Corporate Social
To be the World’s Leading Power
• To foster a collaborative style of working with • To maintain and improve the financial
Company, Energising India’s customers, growing to be a preferred brand for soundness of NTPC by prudent management Responsibility
Growth quality and reliable power supply. of the financial resources. • To deliver business and environmental value
through projects which are beneficial for
• To expand the customer portfolio through • To continuously strive to reduce the cost business and the larger ecosystem.
profitable diversification into downstream of capital through prudent management of
business inter alia E-mobility and direct supply. deployed funds, leveraging opportunities in • To ensure sustainable power development by
domestic and international financial markets. ensuring minimal wastage across operations.
• To ensure rapid commercial decision-making,
using customer-specific information, with • To promote innovative funding models to • To actively contribute towards societal
adequate concern for the interest of the support entry into new businesses and sustain development.
customer. long-term growth.
• To lead the sector in the areas of environment
• To adapt business models and organisation • To develop appropriate commercial policies and protection including effective ash-utilisation,
structures to capture value which is processes which would ensure remunerative peripheral development and energy
progressively shifting towards the customers. tariffs, balance capital work-in-progress and conservation practices.
minimise receivables.
Human Resource Development Business Portfolio Growth Research & Development (R&D)
• To enhance organisational performance • To sustain NTPC’s position as the leading • To undertake R&D initiatives in sync with the
Mission by institutionalising an objective and open power generation company in the world. overall business portfolio.
performance management system.
• To broaden the base of the generation, mix
• To pioneer the adoption of reliable, efficient
Provide Reliable Power and Related Solutions • To align individual and organisational needs with a significant proportion of clean energy and cost-effective technologies by carrying out
and develop business leaders by implementing sources.
fundamental and applied research in alternate
in an Economical, Efficient and Environment a career development system. • To enable the generation fleet to operate at fuels and technologies.
optimum efficiency while meeting the demand
Friendly Manner, Driven by Innovation and Agility • To build a lean organisation with diverse skills
and stability in the grid. • To collaborate with leading institutes,
and a high ability to adapt to change.
• To diversify into emerging businesses and technology players and service providers,
• To build and sustain a learning organisation of markets across the power value chain including particularly in the area of power plant
competent world-class professionals. coal mining, power trading, ancillary services, construction, generation technology,
• To institutionalise core values and create E-mobility, storage and related adjacencies. operations, renewable energy sources, storage,
Core Values a culture of team-building, ownership, • To establish a strong services brand in e-mobility etc. that can contribute towards
efficiency, reliability and environmental
empowerment, equity, innovation and openness domestic and international markets.
friendliness.
which would motivate employees and enable • To assist in the capacity creation of key
ICOMIT the achievement of strategic objectives. stakeholders.
Performance Leadership Agile Corporation
• To continuously strive for innovation in reducing costs, enhancing operational
• To ensure effectiveness in business decisions and responsiveness to
flexibility, and addressing changing customer needs.
changes in the business environment by:
• To continuously improve on project execution time and cost in order to sustain
- Adopting a portfolio approach to new business development.
long-term competitiveness.
- Continuous and coordinated assessment of the business environment to
• To effectively leverage Information Technology to drive process efficiencies
identify and respond to opportunities and threats.
and enable system flexibility in line with the market needs.
• To create capabilities to attain leadership in new and emerging businesses. • To create lean organisation and business processes.
• To embed quality and safety in all systems and processes. • To develop a learning organisation with a knowledge-based competitive
edge in current and future businesses.
• Support the evolution of power markets to meet customer needs through
products, platforms, services etc. to create a win-win opportunity across • To develop a culture of curiosity and innovation in learning and adopting
stakeholders. new technologies, business models and operational philosophies in line
with the evolving market and changing customer needs.
• To lead development efforts in the Indian power sector through stakeholder
consultation.
14 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 15
Letter to Shareholders
Dear Shareholders, expected to help us continue our growth trajectory, which is
essential for meeting the country’s growing power needs.
I am delighted to update you all as we look back on our company's
performance over the past year and reaffirm our goals for building Providing reliable and affordable power has been, and will
a stronger and sustainable business. This year has been nothing continue to be, our guiding principle as we define priorities for the
short of extraordinary for your company, and we are proud of the future. We're continuously investing in and adapting to advanced
achievements it has accomplished. technologies to meet the nation's growing electricity demand.
Our team has been working relentlessly to deliver value in all
During FY24 Our market capitalization touched an all-time high
facets of our business and our goal is to make decisions that will
of `3.49 lakh Crore ($42 billion). This surge in investor confidence
benefit the shareholders.
is a testimony to the company's sound financial management
and belief in its long-term growth prospects. I would like to Due to the strong focus on the “Make-in-India” initiative of the
congratulate you on this achievement and express my sincere Government coupled with changes in residential consumption
thanks for reaffirming your trust in us. patterns, it is expected that India will continue to register 6-7%
annual growth in power demand at least for the next decade.
Your company’s balance sheet has been growing bigger and
This mandates the requirement of additional capacities both
stronger demonstrating its financial strength and stability.
renewable and conventional sources till significant storage
Consolidated PAT for FY24 stood at `21,332 Crore ($ 2.54 billion),
capacity is in place. This offers enough room for power utilities
registering an increase of nearly 25% over FY23. We have also
like NTPC to expand their horizons. Accordingly, your company
realized over 100% of our current billing with a total realization of
is fully geared up to tap this opportunity and take all required
`1,57,138 Crore ($ 18.93 billion) and our debtors stand at only 31
actions for expanding its portfolio with the right fuel mix.
days of average billing. These achievements could not have been
possible without the consistent efforts of a dedicated team. Ensuring the safety of our operations is paramount. We are
continuously evaluating to enhance our safety measures to
Furthermore, as informed earlier, to solidify our commitment to
meet and exceed industry standards, reflecting our dedication
clean energy, the Initial Public Offering of our subsidiary, NTPC
to operational excellence and responsible stewardship of
Green Energy Limited (NGEL) is on the anvil.
shareholder interests. We have implemented rigorous safety
protocols, devised training modules for imparting training to all the
We remain steadfast in our commitment to enhancing financial
employees including contractual workers and investing in state-
performance, delivering consistent returns for our shareholders,
of-the-art technology to maintain a safe working environment.
and maintaining our reputation as a trusted and responsible
leader in the energy industry. This commitment is reflected in Building a Brighter, Sustainable Future
the payment of dividend for the 31st consecutive year with a
for India
declaration of a total dividend of `7.75 per equity share for FY24,
subject to shareholders' approval in the upcoming Annual General NTPC holds a commanding 17% share of India’s total installed
Meeting. This dividend payout is nearly 42% of our profit. We are power capacity. When it comes to generation, the company
completely focused on increasing the wealth of shareholders and contributes a substantial 24% of India’s total power generation
working on alternative ways of incentivizing the shareholders as which underscores our robust O&M and asset management
well. practices.
One of the important events in the past year has been the issuance Your company achieved generation of 422 BU of electricity,
of the Tariff Regulations by the Central Electricity Regulatory registering a growth of ~6% year-on-year. We have also added
Commission for the five-year period (2024-29) starting 1st April 3924 MW capacity, taking the total installed capacity to 76 GW.
2024. These are forward-looking and capture the needs of the The addition includes not just coal-based power plants but
Shri Gurdeep Singh sector through various provisions. These tariff regulations are Renewable energy capacity as well. This impressive growth
Chairman & Managing Director
16 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 17
translates to a stronger ability to meet India’s ever-growing mode for which the developmental activities have started. With in the advanced stage. After gaining the requisite expertise in also certified as a “Top Employer 2024” in India by Brandon Hall
energy demands. the current plan, your company’s fossil and non-fossil mix is nuclear project development, we would like to undertake projects Group.
expected to be nearly 60:40 by 2032. on our own under the new subsidiary.
Beyond the Bottom Line: Our Commitment
India met a peak demand of 250 GW in May 2024. As per the
estimates prepared by the Central Electricity Authority, the peak This expansion strengthens your company’s stature as a leading This fiscal year we achieved a major milestone by fully to Social Impact
demand is expected to touch 366 GW in 2032. Accordingly, the power generator in India and positions us to make the most commissioning our first overseas power station in Bangladesh.
At our core, we uphold the principles of sound corporate
additional coal-based capacity requirement is 80 GW including of future market opportunities. By strategically increasing its This achievement assumes significance in our “Golden
governance and are unwavering in our dedication to ethical
28 GW which is currently under construction. Out of the 80 GW, generation capacity, NTPC ensures a secure and sustainable Jubilee” year. Our collaborations with Indian states and foreign
business practices. Guided by values of conscience, transparency,
your company is expected to add 26 GW of coal-based capacity stream of revenue generation. governments on power projects solidify our position as a global
fairness, professionalism, and accountability, these principles
including 9.5 GW which is under construction, and all these energy player. Thus, NTPC climbed 61 positions to secure the
I am happy to share that your company’s commitment to self- form the bedrock of our operations.
capacities are planned to be commissioned by 2031-32. 372nd rank in Forbes’ Global 2000 List for 2024.
sufficiency in coal production has yielded impressive results.
NTPC’s commitment to ESG is evident through its focus on
As part of the above plan, in FY24, orders have been placed During the FY24, total coal despatch of 34.15 MMT was I’m happy to announce the groundbreaking advancements
environmental responsibility, social development, and robust
for 3200 MW of coal-based capacity at Singrauli-III and Lara- achieved, registering over 50% growth when compared to the achieved by our R&D team this year. One key development is the
corporate governance. From reducing water consumption and
II. Further, tenders have been issued for 10.4 GW of capacity preceding year. This accounts for nearly 13% of our total coal first-of-its-kind waste-to-charcoal plant in Varanasi. This facility
implementing emission control technologies to its impactful
which is expected to be placed in 2024 and the orders for the consumption. Looking ahead, we are strategizing to fulfil a tackles waste management while creating a valuable resource.
CSR initiatives and dedication to employee well-being, NTPC is
balance capacity is also expected to be placed in next one year. minimum of 25% of our coal requirement through captive mines Furthermore, the successful trial of hydrogen buses in Leh
actively shaping a sustainable future for India, its stakeholders,
We are keeping a strong focus on delivering projects on time and by FY30. Furthermore, NML secured the rights to develop the showcases our commitment to clean transportation solutions,
and its workforce.
developing mechanisms to make our decision-making process North Dhadu (East) coal block. This not only supports our fuel especially for remote areas. This pioneering initiative paves
faster within the ambit of all principles. security but also translates to cost savings. NTPC’s dedication the way for wider adoption and a reduced carbon footprint. The decision to permanently discontinue operation of
to sustainable mining practices is highlighted by the recent We aspire to address environmental and societal challenges the outdated Barauni Thermal Power Station reflects our
We recognize the urgency of addressing climate change and are
recognition of two of our mines, which have received Star Rating through innovative technologies. To sustain and accelerate commitment to optimizing our operations and focusing on more
actively diversifying our portfolio beyond traditional sources. Our
Awards under the category of Opencast mines by the Ministry these advancements, we’ve significantly increased our R&D efficient power generation technologies.
Renewable energy installed capacity has reached 3.6 GW. By
of Coal. expenditure by 70%, reaching nearly `484 Crore ($ 58.3 Million).
investing in renewables, and storage solutions, with over 11 GW NTPC’s consistent commitment to high standards of corporate
Investing in Our People
of renewable energy and hydro projects under construction, and NTPC has conceptualized the development of all its mines as governance is recognized by the Gold Award it received
a strong pipeline of over 20 GW in various stages of tendering, a “Model Mine” by adopting the best technological practices, As we look back on a year full of achievements, I am particularly in December 2023 for its Annual Report at the “Corporate
your company is taking a significant step towards becoming a integrating digital tools for operational efficiency, striving proud of the company’s strong commitment to its most valuable Governance Disclosures Competition 2022,” organized by the
fully integrated clean energy provider. towards ‘Zero Incident potential’, promoting green footprints, asset- people. The strong operational and financial performance South Asian Federation of Accountants (SAFA). Additionally,
and setting benchmarks in the mining industry. shows our dedication to advancing a world-class workforce the company’s Internal Audit department was honoured with
We are well poised to achieve the committed 60 GW of renewable
and implementing impactful initiatives. We’ve invested in our the “Internal Auditor of the Year” award at the 5th Audit and Risk
capacity by 2032. We are constantly evolving and developing I am happy to share that your company is driving India’s clean
employees’ potential by implementing new policies and career Summit & Awards (UBS Forums, May 2024).
new strategies and business models for fast-tracking the energy transition by leading initiatives in green hydrogen,
development programs. This has not only helped us deploy our
renewable capacity addition. Our focus has been changed from green chemicals, and carbon capture utilization. These efforts I am pleased to share with you that NTPC’s ESG Score has
workforce more effectively but also prepared our high performers
implementing projects through a plain EPC model to sourcing contribute to the government’s goal of achieving a carbon- ascended by two levels, transitioning from D rating in 2022
to take on future leadership roles.
components and aggregating which includes solar PV modules, neutral economy. Towards this endeavour, we have joined forces to C rating in 2023 in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP)
land patches and connectivity. Your company’s strong presence with leading players like IOCL, ONGC, HPCL Mittal Energy, and We’re committed to keeping our employees at the forefront of Water Security Rating. To support GoI’s initiatives towards
across the length and breadth of the country gives us an edge NALCO to develop large-scale renewable energy parks. These their fields to ensure we maintain the optimal skillset; we’ve creating additional carbon sinks, we have planted more than 1
to collaborate with various State Governments for securing land partnerships will not only accelerate project development but implemented a multifaceted manpower strategy. We have million trees in the last fiscal, totalling 39 million trees till date.
patches and we are effectively utilising this position. also support collaboration across the energy sector. integrated advanced technological tools into our learning Additionally, we are undertaking the Green Credit Program of GoI
modules and partnered with leading institutions to offer training for eco-restoration of degraded forest lands on a voluntary basis.
We are fast-tracking the development of hydro projects through You all will be pleased to know that your company is making
in the latest technologies. This continuous skill development This will promote a sustainable lifestyle and environmental
your company’s subsidiaries THDC and NEEPCO. I am pleased big moves in nuclear power, with 2.8 GW capacity project in
ensures our workforce stays future-proof. We’ve streamlined our conservation as part of the ‘LiFE’ initiative announced by our
to inform you that we are close to commissioning of a 1000 Rajasthan through ASHVINI a JV between NTPC and Nuclear
systems to increase transparency and eliminate discretionary Prime Minister in COP26.
MW Pumped Storage Project at the existing Tehri hydro project Power Corporation of India. Simultaneously, action has been
decision-making. I am happy to share that your company
complex. Additionally, the Government of Tamil Nadu has taken for the formation of a separate subsidiary for carrying out We understand and value the trust and confidence reposed in us
triumphed again at the ATD BEST Awards 2024, marking its
allocated 1000 MW upper Bhavani PSP to be executed in a JV nuclear business and requisite approvals of the Government are by our stakeholders. By adhering to robust governance standards
seventh win in talent development excellence. Your company is
18 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 19
and nurturing a culture rooted in integrity, we strive to ensure that Your company being India’s largest power utility, is ready for
Directors’ Profile
our company operates in a manner that serves the best interests significant growth in the coming years. NTPC’s expertise in the
of all those we serve. power sector makes it well-equipped to capitalize on this growth
opportunity. India’s demographic strength, with a large and young
Beyond delivering reliable and affordable power, we recognize
population, coupled with the vast latent demand for electricity, is Gurdeep Singh [DIN: 00307037] is the Chairman & Managing Director of NTPC Limited,
the impact we have on the social and environmental fabric of
set to drive rapid growth in the power sector. India’s largest integrated power utility and a global energy major since 2016.
India. Our focus has always been to take development beyond
Acknowledgements
boundaries and be inclusive in our approach. This year, we In an illustrious career spanning, more than three and a half decades, he has held
have further strengthened our commitment to Corporate Social I extend my heartfelt gratitude to the Government of India, leadership positions with several national and multinational companies like PowerGen,
Responsibility (CSR) initiatives, adopting a holistic approach that especially the Ministry of Power, Ministry of Coal, Ministry of CESC, AES, IDFC, GSECL, NEEPCO, and DVC.
creates value for our society. Railways, Ministry of Environment, Forest, and Climate Change,
Mr. Singh is an alumnus of NIT Kurukshetra and IIM Ahmedabad and has undergone
Ministry of New and Renewable Energy, DIPAM, CERC, CEA, CAG,
As India’s largest power generation company, we understand management and leadership training from Harvard and Oxford business schools.
State Governments, our esteemed Customers, Auditors, Vendors,
the critical role we play in shaping the nation’s sustainable
and other authorities and agencies for their unwavering support.
An accomplished business leader with expertise in building and managing businesses
future. Our CSR initiatives have focused on Health, Sanitation,
Your strong and continued support has played a pivotal role in
across the power sector value chain, Mr. Singh is leading NTPC’s transformational
Education, Sports, Skill Development, and Women Empowerment,
our achievements.
journey into a sustainable integrated energy company.
ensuring social well-being alongside economic growth. Our Girls
Empowerment Mission (GEM), with a vision to create a brighter I also want to acknowledge and thank my fellow Board members
Gurdeep Singh Mr. Singh embraces innovation and a people-centric sustainable approach to business.
future for both girls and society, has blossomed into a nationwide for their invaluable contributions in strengthening the Company.
Chairman & Managing Director Under his leadership, NTPC has been consistently ranked as a ‘best employer’
movement and has already benefited more than 10,000 girls in To our investors, shareholders, employees, and customers, I
internationally and received awards and recognitions for its community-oriented
India. Through many such initiatives, NTPC has made a positive deeply appreciate your trust and support. Your confidence is
innovative CSR initiatives and business sustainability.
impact on the lives of over 16 lakh people. paramount to us, and we are committed to maintaining it through
Unlocking New Opportunities our dedicated efforts. Mr. Singh’s pioneering efforts in leading India’s clean energy transition have earned him global acclaim, including the S&P Platts
Global CEO of the year award and SCOPE Eminence Award.
NTPC remains committed to innovation and excellence in the Once again, I sincerely thank all stakeholders for their trust and
ever-evolving energy landscape. Guided by our core values, we confidence in our Company. We are committed to exceeding
are constantly seeking out new opportunities for responsible and expectations and fostering a sustainable energy future.
sustainable growth.
With best wishes,
India, home to around one-sixth of the population, aspires to
Yours sincerely,
become a developed country by 2047. This calls for the significant Jaikumar Srinivasan, [DIN: 01220828], has over 3 decades of experience in Power and Mining
build-up of infrastructure and expansion of the manufacturing Sd/- sector in State and Central PSUs in the field of Finance, Accounts, Taxation, Commercial,
base which in turn gives rise to the energy demand. (Gurdeep Singh) Electricity regulation, Renewables, IT, Project development etc. with more than a decade
Chairman & Managing Director of Board level experience. Before his appointment as Director (Finance), NTPC Limited, he
served on the Board of various companies. He was Director (Finance) in NLC India Limited
as well as in Maharashtra State Electricity and Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) and
Maharashtra State Power Generation Company Limited (MAHAGENCO).
He also holds charge of Commercial function of the Company. He is also on the Boards of
NTPC Green Energy Limited (NGEL). He is also the Part-time Chairman of Ratnagiri Gas and
Power Private Limited (RGPPL), Indian Oil NTPC Green Energy Limited (INGEL) and Green
Jaikumar Srinivasan
Valley Renewable Energy Limited (GVREL).
Director (Finance)
20 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 21
Ravindra Kumar (DIN: 10523088), a Mechanical engineering graduate from BIT Sindri, joined
Shivam Srivastava [DIN:10141887], a Mechanical Engineering graduate from Kamala
NTPC as 14th Batch Executive Trainee in 1989. He has over 34 years of vast experience
Nehru Institute of Technology, Sultanpur (Avadh University), Post Graduate in Business
with outstanding contributions in power plant Operation & Maintenance, Engineering &
Management from MDI Gurgaon, had joined NTPC as 13th batch executive trainee in 1988. Project Management. He initially worked in various capacities in O&M functions including
He has also undergone a Leadership Management course from Harvard Business School, Commissioning at NTPC Kahalgaon Project. Subsequently he worked at Corporate Centre in
Boston (USA). In his professional career, he has accumulated over 34 years of experience with Engineering Department and as a Technical Support to Director (Technical), NTPC Ltd.
outstanding contribution in areas of Fuel Handling, Fuel management, Safety, plant operation Shri Ravindra Kumar’s experience in power sector includes Senior Management level exposure
as a CTO (Chief Technical Officer) of BIFPCL (Bangladesh India Friendship Power Company
& maintenance and in coal mining projects.
Ltd) where he was actively involved in development of Maitree (2X660 MW) supercritical
His experience in the energy sector includes exposures as Head of Fuel Management power project of BIFPCL, Bangladesh. He spearheaded all Engineering, Procurement, Erection,
Commissioning, and O&M activities including Fuel Security of both the Units of BIFPCL. Later,
functions, Head of Operation & Maintenance functions in power plants along with experience
as Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Patratu, he expedited various Engineering, Procurement,
as Business Unit Head of two coal mining projects of NTPC. Prior to his elevation to the post Ravindra Kumar
Erection and Commissioning activities of the Project.
Shivam Srivastava of Director (Fuel), he was working as CGM and Business Unit Head of Pakri Barwadih Coal Director (Operations)
Shri Ravindra Kumar took charge as Director (Operations), NTPC Ltd. on 26th February 2024.
Director (Fuel) Mining Project of NTPC Limited where he had been instrumental in ensuring fuel security and
Prior to this, he was OSD (Officer on Special Duty) to Director (Operations), NTPC Ltd.
building self-reliance in coal supply to power projects of NTPC.
Shri Ravindra Kumar is also Part time Chairman on the Board of NTPC Tamil Nadu Energy Company Ltd. (NTECL), Bhartiya Rail
Bijli Corporation Limited (BRBCL), Jhabua Power Limited (JPL), NTPC-SAIL Power Company Limited (NSPCL) & NTPC BHEL Power
As Director (Fuel), NTPC, he is responsible for ensuring fuel availability, affordability, and security for generating stations along
Projects Private Limited (NBPPL). He is Part time Director on the Boards of NTPC Mining Ltd (NML), Bangladesh India Friendship
with development and safe operation of captive coal mines of NTPC. He is also responsible for Fuel Supply Agreements with
Power Company (Pvt.) Limited (BIFPCL) and Board Member of Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).
Gas Suppliers, Coal suppliers and ensuring timely supply of quality coal at power stations as per power generation requirement
As Director (Operations), he is responsible for overall planning for Safe, Reliable, Sustainable, and Efficient operation of all power
alongside maintaining adequate stock levels. He is also Part-time Chairman of NTPC Electric Supply Company Limited (NESCL),
generating stations of NTPC group, while ensuring Fuel Security & Environmental compliance at all the Power Stations.
NTPC Mining Limited (NML) and NTPC Vidyut Vyapar Nigam Ltd (NVVN).
K. Shanmugha Sundaram [DIN: 10347322], as Director (Projects) of NTPC Limited is Piyush Singh [DIN: 07492389], is a 2000 Batch IAS officer from Maharashtra Cadre. He is working
responsible for Projects (Thermal, Hydro & RE), Engineering, R&D, Corporate Contracts & as Joint Secretary (Thermal and Coal, Distribution), Ministry of Power, Govt. of India.
Materials, Dispute Resolution and Information Technology verticals of NTPC.
He has done B. Tech (Civil) from IIT Delhi. He worked in various capacities in District Administration,
He is a 1988 batch Electronics and Communication Engineering graduate from Govt. College
of Technology, Coimbatore with PGDM from MDI Gurgaon in Strategy & Finance and joined Department of Social Justice & Empowerment and Department of health & family welfare,
NTPC Limited as Graduate Engineer Trainee officer in 1988. Government of Maharashtra. He also served in Uttarakhand in Planning department, Dehradun.
He has over 35 years of diverse experience in Project Management of greenfield & brown-field
He has wide experience in the area of Public Administration and Planning.He is also on the Board
projects including execution, commissioning and operation & maintenance of vast fleet of
of North Eastern Electrical Power Corporation Limited (NEEPCO) & THDC (India) Limited.
power stations. Piyush Singh
He was actively involved for the development of 1st supercritical power project of NTPC at Govt. Nominee Director
K. Shanmugha Sundaram Sipat-I (3x660 MW). He has worked in various capacities at NTPC Darlipali Project (2x800 MW).
He has exposure of working at Corporate Centre in Operation Services wherein monitoring of
Director (Projects)
Company’s functions is being carried out and strategic initiatives taken.
During his tenure as Head of Project at NTPC Barauni (720 MW), a taken over Project from
Bihar State Electricity Board, project commissioning was accomplished. As Head of Project at Talcher Kaniha (3000 MW), he was
influential in improving the performance of the station which has ensured CII-ITC Sustainability award and construction of FGD. Sangitha Varier, [DIN: 09402812], is a Corporate Leader. She is a Commerce Graduate and Bachelor
Prior to joining as Director (Projects), NTPC Limited, he was Executive Director to CMD, NTPC Limited. in Education (B. Ed.). During her career, she has held various positions. She is Director of The Arya
Apart from being a member of NTPC board, he is also Part-time Chairman in NTPC Green Energy limited (NGEL), NTPC Renewable Vaidya Pharmacy Ayurveda Hospital & Training Academy, a wing of The Arya Vaidya Pharmacy
Energy Limited (NREL), Patratu Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Limited. (PVUNL), Aravali Power Company Private Limited (APCPL), Meja Urja (Coimbatore) Ltd. She also headed the Administration and Academics of four Chinmaya Vidyalaya
Nigam Private Limited (MUNPL) & Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL), Vice Chairman in Fertiliser JV Company -Hindustan Schools as Correspondent. Presently she is state General Secretary in Seva Bharathi, Tamil Nadu.
Urvarak & Rasayan Limited(HURL).
Ms. Sangitha Varier
He is a professional with Corporate and Site experience, people-oriented approach, knowledge and experience of the entire power
Independent Director
sector and works towards speedy implementation of Projects.
22 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 23
Senior Management Team (as on 1st August, 2024)
Vidyadhar Vaishampayan, [DIN: 02667949], is an M-Tech from IIT-Mumbai and he has also
completed Executive Development Study from IIM-Bangalore. He is an active member of Sr. No First Name Last Name Position held
various social organizations and groups. 1 Prem Parkash RED (WR-I) & (SR)
2 Pradipta Kumar Mishra RED (WR-II) & (USSC)
He was associated with TJSB Sahakari Bank Ltd., Thane, Maharashtra, since 1994 and was
elected as a Board Member for the tenure of 1994-2002 and was a member of various sub 3 Manohar Krishna Asthana ED (QA & Inspection)
committees. In tenure of 2002-2005, he has been elected as Vice-chairman then in the tenure 4 Kedar Ranjan Pandu ED (Ramagundam)
of 2005-2015, he has been elected as a Chairman of the Bank and in the tenure of 2015- 5 Aditya Dar ED (Finance)
2020, he was a Director of the Bank. He was also Director in National Federation of Urban 6 Shoba Pattabhiraman ED (Vigilance)
Co-Operative Bank and was member of RBI Task Force from 2014 to 2019. In technical field, 7 Asesh Kumar Chattopadhyay ED (Tanda)
Vidyadhar Vaishampayan he has developed multilevel parking system, which is essential requirement of present as well 8 Bodanki Srinivasa Rao ED (FGD)
as future. 9 S Govindarajan ED (DRC) & (CC&M)
Independent Director
10 Shambhu Nath Tripathi RED (Hydro) & ED(PM)
11 Nasaka Srinivasa Rao RED (NR)
12 Sudip Nag RED (ER-I)
13 Umakant Haribhau Gokhe ED (CPG-I)
14 Harekrushna Dash ED (CP)
15 Satish Upadhyay ED (Biomass)
16 Subhra Kumar Ghosh ED (OS)
Jitendra Jayantilal Tanna, [DIN: 09403346], is a Chartered Accountant by profession. He is 17 R Sarangapani ED (BD & IBD)
also a Commerce Graduate. He has functional expertise in areas of Direct Taxation, Audit and 18 Arindam Sinha RED (ER-II)
Finance Management. 19 Goutam Deb ED (Hydro)
20 Ajay Dua ED (Commercial)
21 Prasenjit Pal ED (Nuclear)
22 Vijay Goel ED (Barh)
23 Udayan Kumar ED (Engg)
24 E Satya Phani Kumar ED (Vindhyachal)
Jitendra Jayantilal Tanna
25 Vijay Prakash ED (SSEA)
Independent Director
26 Shaswattam ED (Netra)
27 Masood Akhtar Ansari ED (Fin)
28 Virendra Malik ED (Fin(Coml))
29 Harjit Singh ED (Corporate Communication)
30 Animesh Jain RED (Coal Mining)
31 Anil Kumar ED (Lara)
32 C Kumar ED (HR)
33 V Sudershanbabu ED (SR)
Vivek Gupta, [DIN: 08794502], is a serial entrepreneur. He is a Management Graduate with a
34 Pushpendra Tyagi GM (Internal Audit)
degree of Law. He is founder CEO in Jaipur scientific instrument, Jaipur Scientific Agriculture
Posted in JVs/Subsidiaries
Research Sol. Pvt. Ltd. and Director in Drinkbucket Pvt. Ltd.
1 Sangeeta Kaushik MD (BIFPCL)
2 Apelagunta Kama Manohar CEO (NTECL), Vallur
3 Diwakar Kaushik CEO (NSPCL)
Vivek Gupta
4 Gampa Brahmaji Rao CEO (APCPL), Jhajjar
Independent Director
5 Rajiv Gupta CEO (NGEL)
6 Kamlesh Soni CEO (Meja)
7 Renu Narang CEO (NVVN)
8 Santosh Kumar Takhele CEO(RGPPL, Ratnagiri)
24 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 25
Introduction to capitals and value creation model
26 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 27
Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality Assessment Our Stakeholders
Our Approach
Stakeholder Modes of Frequency of Key Concerns Materiality Topics
Group Engagement Engagement Linkage
At NTPC, we place paramount importance on creating value for all To effectively manage stakeholder relationships, NTPC has
our stakeholders across the entire value chain. We consistently implemented a comprehensive and structured stakeholder
Government of India • Minister & Secretary • Quarterly • Ample power generation
strive to align our operations and business processes to management process across verticals, functions, and
level review • Need based capacity
effectively meet the expectations of our esteemed stakeholders. establishments. This includes a 4 step systematic methodology
• Meetings with MoP, • 24x7 affordable power to all
Our strategies are meticulously crafted to prioritize the needs of that includes identifying key stakeholders, analyzing their MNRE, MoEFCC, MoC, • Maximizing infrastructure
our diverse range of stakeholders, encompassing employees, perspectives and interests, and mapping and prioritizing their DAE, DPE, Parliamentary utilization
communities, contractors, customers, and vendors. We actively needs, leading ultimately to the framing of engagement strategy. Committees, CEA, NITI • Social development
engage with them with unwavering commitment and undertake Further details on this process can be found on the NTPC Aayog etc. • Climate Change &
materiality assessment to capture and integrate stakeholder website at https://www.ntpc.co.in/sustainability/stakeholder- Environment conservation
issues into our decision-making and business strategy. We management. • Promote Govt. schemes (viz.
All
prioritize critical and recurring stakeholder concerns within the Make in India, Skill India,
Swachh Bharat Mission, etc.)
analysis, which further inform our actions and responses as
outlined in the materiality section.
Regulators • Public hearings • Need based • Optimum electricity tariff
• Statutory audits & • As per statutory • Compliance with changing
Stakeholder Engagement1
inspections provisions business environment
We, at NTPC, recognize that stakeholder engagement is a • Meeting for clearances,
continuous process, encompassing interactions at various consents and
compliances
management levels and through diverse communication
channels. With a rich history spanning nearly five decades, we
Communities • Public hearings • Need based • Infrastructure development 4, 6,7,8, 9, 12
have diligently cultivated a positive and constructive relationship & NGOs • Village Development • Annually • Quality of life
with our stakeholders, built upon the foundations of mutual
Advisory Committee • Employment opportunities
trust, transparency, ethics, and accountability. Our growth and (VDAC)
• Land acquisition and R&R
achievements can be attributed in large part to the ongoing • Public information issues
dialogue that we maintain with stakeholders, actively seeking centers
• Increased community
and incorporating their valuable feedback on matters pertaining • Project-based involvement
to our operations. stakeholder meets
Stakeholder engagement framework
Investors & Lenders • Analyst and investors • Quarterly • Improving Rol 4,10,11
meetings • Annual • Climate change & business
• Annual general meeting • Regular sustainability
• Review meets with • Risk and governance
bankers (Domestic and compliance
Foreign) • Increased disclosures on
Environment, Social and
Governance (ESG) aspects
Employees • Participative forums • Defined • Professional growth 1,2, 7, 10, 11, 14, 15
• Communication frequency of • Work life balance
meetings concerned Fora • Health, safety and security
• Employee surveys • Need based • Timely resolution of
• Intranet and website grievances
• Trainings and workshops • Transparent appraisal and
• Internal magazines promotion cycle
1GRI 2-29
28 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 29
Keeping in line with our robust materiality assessment the challenges, risks, and opportunities that our company may
Stakeholder Modes of Frequency of Key Concerns Materiality Topics
methodology, we undertook an assessment of our material topics face as described in the chapters on Risk and Governance, and
Group Engagement Engagement Linkage
in FY-2021-22 (in accordance with the IIRC Framework and GRI Ethics and Vigilance. Our business sustainability depends on
standards) through a credible MNC. This exercise was helpful the effective management of material topics since it guides our
Customers • Regional customer • Quarterly • Resolving commercial issues 3,4,5,10
in prioritizing the inputs received from relevant stakeholders, as strategic planning and management priorities towards creating
meets
• Monthly • Resolving technical issues
described in the previous section (Stakeholder Engagement), long-term sustainable value for our stakeholders. The details
• Regional power
• Yearly
committees (RPCs) and incorporating them into the decision-making process of about methodology and engagements undertaken can be
• Commercial meetings/ • Need Based NTPC. The material topics also provide further insights into accessed from NTPC’s website.
interactions (https://ntpc.co.in/sustainability/materiality-analysis)
• Technical coordination
committee
• Operation coordination
committee
• Business partner meet
• Customer support
services
Suppliers • Pre-bid conference • Before tendering • Transparent dealings 2,10,11,13
• Suppliers meets, Vendor • Need based • Timely payments
enlisting • Fair opportunities
• NTPC website • Sustainable Supply Chain
Media • Press releases • Need based • Information sharing All
• Press conferences • Event based • Increased transparency
Indian Citizens • Right to Information • Continuous • Community development All
(RTI) Act queries • Environmental issues
• NTPC website • Progressive organization
Materiality Assessment2
NTPC recognizes the importance of conducting materiality adopted a structured methodology for conducting materiality
assessments, which form a core component of our Integrated assessment using a dedicated materiality survey at a regular
Report, and enables us to gain understanding of the relative interval (3 to 4 years), in which we engage both internal and
importance of specific environmental, social and economic external stakeholders.
issues and their potential impact on value creation. We have
Materiality Assessment
Innovation and R&D
Phase 1: Phase 2: Phase 3: Phase 4: Phase 5:
Identify stakeholder Material topic Stakeholder Materiality survey Materiality Matrix
& Potential material prioritization engagement & Analysis & Review Development &
topic materiality survey Reporting
NTPC's Materiality Assessment Process
2GRI 2-29
30 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 31
Our approach to materiality topics Material Topics Key Actions SDG Linkages Capital Linkages
4. Climate change • Enhanced geographical and technological Natural, Social and
Material Topics Key Actions SDG Linkages Capital Linkages diversification, inherently reduces our risks to any Manufactured Capital
location-specific natural catastrophe
1. Occupational • Safety is inculcated in the core values of NTPC; Human Capital
• Power plants and associated infrastructure are
health and safety SAP Integrated NTPC Safety Framework developed
designed to withstand cyclones, heatwaves and
• Target of zero incidents by establishment of robust
increase in ambient temperatures
safety culture and policy
• Decommissioning of old thermal plants and a
• Up-gradation of operating procedures to make the
revised target of 60 GW of RE capacity by 2032
work environment safer
• Our current Non-Fossil based energy capacity is
• Mitigation of potential safety hazards owing to
diversification into new technologies and business ~10% . And with further massive RE addition, we
areas anticipate reducing our specific CO emissions
2
substantially over the next few years.
• NTPC Unchahar Safety Academy has been
established to provide hands-on training on specific
5. Digital • Launched notable digital platforms for business Intellectual Capital
safety and emergency requirements
transformation approvals and Suppliers/Labour bill payments
• Mandatory Periodic Occupational Health Check-ups
• CPM & BI tool for data monitoring and reporting
for all employees and contract labourers
• Record Keeping of medical history of employees
6. Water & effluents • Optimisation of water consumption through Natural and
and their family through online centralized HMS
management advanced technologies and process re-engineering Social Capital
Framework “Jeevan Rekha”
• NTPC is a signatory to the CEO Water Mandate
2. Business ethics • Ethics being part of core values, all business Social Capital
• Implementation of “Water Policy” and “Rainwater
and integrity processes are aligned to the principles of ethics
Harvesting Policy”
and integrity
• Implementation of “Zero Liquid Discharge (ZLD)”
• Policies of code of conduct, whistle-blower,
at all stations, including ensuring good quality
complaint handling and banning of business
dealings in place freshwater availability in and around plant locations
through community investments and capacity
• 100% compliance with laws and regulations
building
ensuring a transparent and corruption-free work
environment • Installation of Air-Cooled Condensers having
potential to save 60% of water
• Display Boards at all offices exhorting any visitor
not to succumb to pressure, and report any case • Cycles of Concentration (CoC) is being increased at
of corrupt practices directly to Nodal and Chief
all stations for reducing freshwater intake
Vigilance Officer
7. Labour practices • Uphold the best Global and Indian labour standards Human and
pertaining to wage determination, allocation of Social Capital
3. Energy • Stress on efficient utilization of resources and Manufactured and
tasks, shifts & working hours, provision of training,
management use of technological advancements for improving Natural Capital
incentive & reward schemes and occupational
energy efficiency
health & safety
• Dedicated groups (CenPEEP & CEETEM) created to
• Dedicated Human Rights Policy in place to promote
improve the Energy Efficiency Management
and safeguard all kinds of human rights, including
• Energy Efficiency Management System (EEMS)
organizational rights
consisting of periodic assessments, field tests,
• Operating bipartite collective bargaining forum
performance gap analysis, deviations analysis and
updation of action plans at all stations. (NTPC Bipartite Council) since 1982
• Implemented CLIMS for online labour payments,
skill training and building health Information profile
32 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 33
Material Topics Key Actions SDG Linkages Capital Linkages Material Topics Key Actions SDG Linkages Capital Linkages
8. Air emissions • Installation of FGD/DSI system for SOx control Natural Capital 12. Waste • Waste (Hazardous & Non-hazardous) generated Natural Capital
completed for 23 units while execution work in 119 management are properly handled and disposed with approved
agencies
units is in process
• Specific guidelines and systems instituted for
• Combustion modifications for De-NOx 49/50 units
handling domestic waste and bio-medical waste
completed, whereas execution work for rest one
• The scrap and recyclable waste are managed
unit is in process
through auction on the MSTC e-platform
• Retrofitting of ESP done for 40/50 units at 13+ • Other solid waste is managed according to our
GW capacity to curb particulate emissions at all Waste Management Policy & applicable govt.
stations, whereas retrofitting for the remaining regulations
capacity is ongoing.
13. Supply chain • Implementation of Sustainable Supply Chain Policy Social Capital
• Continuous Emission Monitoring System (CEMS)
management • Capacity building programmes for suppliers on
of all stacks
Environment, Social and Governance fronts to
• Ambient air quality monitoring through an online create shared value
Ambient Air Quality Monitoring System (AAQMS) • Capturing ESG data of suppliers and mapping the
vulnerability
9. Community • Dedicated CSR policy in line with Companies Act, Social Capital
engagement 2013 and Department of Public Enterprises (DPE)
14. New businesses • Transforming into an integrated energy player from Financial and
Guidelines for CSR
and investments a power generator only Manufactured Capital
• Key community-based programmes through NTPC • Diversified into Renewables, Green Hydrogen,
Foundation Green Chemicals, EV Ecosystem & Power Trading,
etc.
• Our focus areas include Health, Sanitation, Water
and Education
• One of the top CSR spending conglomerates in 15. Employee • Continuously re-engineering HR systems to Human Capital
development strengthen the relationship between business
country through expenditure of 352.79 Cr. in FY
and talent growth and systematic employee development
2023-24
retention • Continuous engagement activities and training
10. Governance • Committees of Audit, Nomination and Social, Human and programs
practices Remuneration, Stakeholders Relationship, CSR and Financial Capital • Systematic job rotation and career development
scheme to aid employees in their horizontal and
Risk Management
vertical growth
• Govt. nominated directors on our Board, ensuring
strict monitoring and transparency in our 16. Biodiversity • Implementation of dedicated Biodiversity Policy Natural Capital
governance system and natural • 39+ Million saplings have been planted
• Financial Accounts are audited by Statutory resource
• Currently implementing 16 Wildlife and habitat
Auditors appointed by o/o C&AG and management
restoration projects.
supplementary audit is carried out by o/o C&AG.
• Integration of biodiversity considerations into
Further, Internal Auditors carry out review of
business decision-making processes.
processes and internal controls.
• NTPC’s pay policies are governed by DPE
17. Innovation and • Delivering sustainable technology solutions Intellectual Capital
• Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for
R&D through applied research and providing advanced
sustainable development, provide access to justice
scientific services through dedicated R&D centre
for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive (NETRA)
institutions at all levels
• Independently developing patented technology
11. Economic value • NTPC Group’s economic performance during the Financial Capital • Mitigation of greenhouse gas emissions by
creation FY 2023-24 has resulted in a direct economic value taking up projects on renewable, WtE, CCU, Water
conservation etc.
generation of INR 1,77,608.87 Cr.
• R&D projects to increase the reuse of wastewater
in our plants
34 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 35
Risk and Governance
NTPC has implemented a robust Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) system, supported by a comprehensive framework and
established processes. In compliance with SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, NTPC has constituted
a Director-level sub-committee called the Risk Management Committee (RMC) to oversee the implementation of ERM practices. The
RMC consists of key members, including the Chairperson (Director- Projects), the Director (Operations), an Independent Director, and
The Risk Management Committee holds key roles
and responsibilities, which include
Developing a Monitoring and Ensuring appropriate Reviewing the Keeping the board
comprehensive Risk overseeing the methodology, risk management informed about the
Management Policy implementation processes, and policy on annual nature and content
that encompasses of the risk systems are in basis, including by of its discussions,
the identification of management policy, place to monitor considering the recommendations,
internal and external including evaluating and evaluate risks changing industry and actions to be
risks specific to the adequacy of associated with dynamics and taken.
the organization, risk management the business of the evolving complexity.
such as financial, and internal control Company.
operational, sectoral, systems.
ESG, information,
and cyber security
risks, or any other
risks determined by
the Committee.
Risks & Opportunities NTPC’s Initiatives
the Chief Risk Officer (CRO). The RMC ensures that the company’s Risk Management Policy adheres to the globally recognized ISO 31000
Operational Risks : - Risks related to processes, systems or events having potential to disrupt business operations.
(Risk Management Guidelines). In alignment with this policy, the RMC conducts holistic evaluation of operational risks and opportunities to
Regulatory and compliance risks
ensure the continuity of business operations for attainment of long-term organizational goals.
• Environmental norms for thermal power plants • NTPC is installing Flue Gas Desulphurisation systems at a massive scale for
require substantial reduction in SPM, SOx, NOx its thermal power plants for SO2 reduction, and Combustion modification for
Enterprise Risks
emissions and water consumption. NOx reduction. ESPs have undergone R&M for SPM control.
• 100% ash utilisation by thermal plants are other • Dry Ash Extraction System (DAES) & High Concentration Slurry Discharge
risk areas. (HCSD) technology are used to minimize use of water in Ash handling. Further,
Operational Risks Long-Term Risks Commercial Risks • Enhanced load ramping requirements new avenues for ash utilisation such as roads and building construction, mine
filling and long term off take agreements have been continuously explored.
The risks associated with The risks associated with The risks associated with bill
processes, systems, or events the company’s long-term realization, denial of Power • NTPC has retrofitting, upgrading its thermal assets to fulfil the ramping rate
that have the potential to objectives Purchase Agreements (PPAs), requirements.
disrupt business operations. despatch uncertainties, and
Safety or Hazard Risk
market-driven energy pricing.
With a large workforce involved in both operating To embed safety in all systems and processes, Safety policy has been revised
stations as well as projects under construction, and “SAP integrated Safety Framework” has been implemented across the
The organization proactively manages enterprise risks, assessing their nature and impact on operations, activities, and long-term safety of people and property remains a potential organization to mitigate risks and eliminate hazards.
objectives. Details on risk management strategies are provided in the next section, highlighting proactive measures to mitigate risks risk.
and ensure resilience.
36 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 37
Risks & Opportunities NTPC’s Initiatives Risks & Opportunities NTPC’s Initiatives
Fuel Security Long-term risks: Risk related to long term goals of the company.
It has become an area of concern owing to NTPC is ensuring fuel security through long-term coal supply agreements. Climate Change: Physical and Transition risk
reduction in coal supplies and gradual increase in Production has started from captive mines i.e. Pakri-Barwadih, Dulanga,
Climate change is posing both physical and NTPC has an enhanced geographical and technology diversification. NTPC
our fleet size. Talaipalli, Chatti-Bariatu and Kerandari. Production from these mines is being
transition risks to all business entities including operates across more than 91 locations in India and abroad, inherently reducing
ramped up to enhance fuel security. Other Mines are in various stages of
NTPC. The risks associated with the increase risks to any individual location specific natural catastrophe. As part of NTPC’s
development.
in sea levels, water stress situations, increased preparedness against such situations, our power plants and infrastructure are
Further, NTPC is also importing coal and blending Biomass pellets as per heat waves, erratic rainfall and frequent natural designed to withstand cyclones, cooling systems to withstand the increase in
requirement and in alignment with guidelines issued by Government. disasters may impact the business. water temperatures brought forth by climate change.
Rising climate change concerns and threats may To de-risk its business from transition risk, NTPC is making substantial
Legal Risk
bring future policy and regulatory risks in terms of progress towards decarbonization of energy through increasing penetration of
With changing legal and regulatory landscape in A Dedicated Arbitration cell created to work in close coordination with best
carbon tax and cess. renewables in its portfolio.It is aimed to increase RE capacity to 60GW by 2032
the country, many legal issues are emerging with legal advisors and industry partnership to clear cases on priority.
Water Security
the growth in the business. As dispute take longer
Mechanism like Conciliation Committees of Independent Experts (CCIE),
time to settle, there is a risk of contracts not being As a proactive measure to avoid any risk due to The proactive measures for water conservation include process improvements
Expert Settlement Council, Vivad-Se-Vishwas, Independent Engineer (for Hydro
closed in a time bound manner. water scarcity in future, NTPC has adopted a policy and technology adoption in all possible manners. Some of the key measures
Projects) are also utilized for dispute avoidance.
of Reduce, Reuse and Recycle (3Rs) for the water being adopted at power generating stations are:
Many cases have been resolved through Mutual Consultation.
being consumed in its station and projects. • Optimisation of cycles of concentration (COC)
Focus is on capability enhancement for employees to minimize disputes. • Implementation of ZLD to reduce freshwater consumption,
• Adoption of Air-Cooled Condenser (ACC) based cooling not only in water
Cyber Security Risk
stressed location but every where except where technically not feasible in
Risks to Power Supply System resulting from Cyber security is given utmost importance to ensure data security. There is a
all upcoming units.
Cyber intrusion attempts and Cyber-attacks on the Security Operation Centre (SOC) which is operational 24x7.
• Dry Ash Extraction System (DAES) & High Concentration Slurry Discharge
plant DCS system as well as grid system operation
NTPC is also part of the Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT_ (HCSD) technology to minimize use of water in Ash handling.
network have potential to endanger the secured
IN)-Thermal. Periodic audits of the network through CERTIN-certified agencies
grid operation. are performed to identify vulnerabilities and are plugged immediately. Interaction NTPC has commissioned India’s 1st Air Cooled Condenser at North Karanpura
with IB on cyber security-related matters is done and their recommendations STPP
are complied with. Energy Transition
NTPC has also created the position of CISO (Chief information security officer) Increased focus on energy transition associated In alignment with climate change objective of GoI, NTPC has made an
at corporate level and Single point of Contact (SPOC) for cyber security at with climate change has opened many avenues aggressive growth plan in RE space, with an envisaged target of achieving 60
stations and projects. for energy sector players. Influx of more variable GW by 2032.
renewable energy in the grid would require greater
NTPC is developing internal mechanisms to deal with flexibilization enabling
Commercial Risks: - Risk to bill realization, PPA denial, despatch risk and market driven energy pricing
support of flexible operation of coal stations,
its coal plants to operate at minimum technical load. Further, NTPC is pursuing
Realization Risks energy storage and ancillary services.
integration of coal-based projects with RE and Battery storage for round the
Poor financial health of the DISCOMS affecting the NTPC has in place a robust payment security mechanism in the form of Letters clock (RTC) supply. NTPC stations are also providing ancillary services for grid
bill realization and cashflows remains a risk. of Credit (LC) backed by the Tri-Partite Agreement (TPA). In addition to the LCs, security and grid balancing.
payment is secured by the Tri-Partite Agreements (TPAs) signed amongst the
Pilot projects to produce Green Chemicals like Methanol, Green Hydrogen and
State Governments, Government of India (GoI) and Reserve Bank of India (RBI).
Carbon Capturing and Utilization (CCU) have been undertaken.
Market driven energy pricing Digitalisation
The power sector is slowly shifting from a NTPC contributes more that 24 % of India’s power requirement with about 17% The dynamic business landscape is being driven NTPC is taking all measures for faster adoption of digitalisation across
regulatory regime to a market driven regime. The of installed capacity. through Digitalisation. In this highly competitive functions and company verticals.
tariffs of new projects are being explored through era, digitalisation is enabling faster decision
In terms of variable cost, NTPC has been consistently maintaining competitive Key digitalisation initiatives by NTPC
competitive bidding. Being an asset heavy business making, reducing costs through automation and
edge over its peers.
model, shifting from a fixed RoE to market-based rendering long term competitive advantage. • PRADIP for paperless business processes, and suppliers bill payment &
earning leads to uncertainties and risks. Additionally, NTPC has been leveraging market mechanism like Security CLIMS for online labour payments.
Constrained Economic Despatch (SCED). Regular market analysis and
• ‘RE Assets Monitoring System’, a centralised system for real-time
forecasting is enable NTPC to anticipate demand accurately. This includes
monitoring of all RE generating Assets (Solar & Wind) of NTPC.
monitoring factors such as fuel prices, electricity demand, regulatory changes,
• Project being undertaken for adoption of Robotic Process Automation
and other factors in the power value chain.
(RPA), Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machines Learning (ML) in business
processes.
38 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 39
Ethics and Vigilance at NTPC
Risks & Opportunities NTPC’s Initiatives
Increased Geo-strategic presence
Ethics play a pivotal role in shaping the culture and driving the employees, and stakeholders. Ethical business conduct not only
Electricity demand is rising in neighbouring NTPC, by virtue of its experience in project management and O&M, has ventured
success of NTPC. At NTPC, we hold the values of integrity and contributes to our long-term success but also builds a reputable
countries and in few parts of world having into overseas opportunities such as.
trust at our core, ensuring that the highest ethical standards are brand, attracts loyal customers, and promotes employee
low energy consumption per capita. Lots of • NTPC through its Joint venture with Bangladesh Power Development
upheld. By prioritizing fairness, transparency, and accountability engagement and loyalty.
opportunities in terms of project construction, Board (BPDB) has commissioned 1320 MW thermal power plant at Rampal
consultancy etc. are coming on NTPC way. Bangladesh. in our practices, we foster positive relationships with customers,
• Trincomalee Power Company Ltd. (TPCL), a 50:50 joint venture with CEB
Sri-Lanka. TPCL shall develop solar power project (50MW- Phase-I & 85 MW NTPC among top rankers in Efficiency in Vigilance Administration as per
Phase-II) at Sampur. objective assessment of efficiency of vigilance administration by CVC in 2023
• NTPC Vidyut Vyapar Nigam Limited (NVVN) has signed Agreement with
Nepal Electricity Authority (NEA) for sale/ purchase of electricity. NVVN is To uphold high ethical standards, NTPC has implemented various Implementation of Various Policies
also suppling power to Bangladesh.
initiatives that demonstrate our unwavering commitment to
NTPC has implemented several policies to enhance integrity,
NTPC is also executing Project Management Consultancy (PMC) assignments ethics. These initiatives are designed to foster transparency,
for setting up of solar projects worth 6.6 GWs of ISA in Africa, South and central accountability, and responsibility in the workplace, reinforcing our ethics & transparency in governance of the Company. We
America. have developed a comprehensive Anti-Bribery and Anti-
dedication to maintain an ethical work environment. Our efforts
Corruption (ABAC) Policy to ensure that our business is
have been recognized by CVC in their objective assessment of
conducted in accordance with the highest ethical standards
efficiency of vigilance administration. The results have been
within prescribed rules and applicable laws of India. The
published by CVC in the booklet “Best Practices in Vigilance
detailed description of our policies can be accessed from
Administration”. NTPC Ranked 1st among Power Sector CPSUs &
https://www.ntpc.co.in/sustainability/policies
3rd among all CPSUs.
NTPC among top rankers in Efficiency in Vigilance Administration as per
objective assessment of efficiency of vigilance administration by CVC in 2023
• ABAC Policy: Primary policy guiding our business conduct • Whistleblower Policy
and ethics Additional Policies (connected to ABAC Policy) • NTPC Complaint Handling Policy
• NTPC Conduct, Discipline and Appeal Rules (CDA Rules) • Applicable Standing Orders under the Industrial
• Fraud Prevention Policy Employment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946
• NTPC Policy & Procedure for Debarment from Business • Code of Conduct for Board of Directors, Senior
Dealings Management Personnel and Employees
• Integrity Pact • Other Circulars/Policies as may be implemented from time
to time.
Implementation of Integrity Pact Vigilance Framework comprises Vigilance Executives stationed
both at the Corporate Centre and various sites. At site locations,
NTPC has implemented the Integrity Pact since 2009. This
the Vigilance Executives report administratively to the Project
pact covers tenders with an estimated value of ₹10 crore and
Head and functionally to the Chief Vigilance Officer. This structure
above, excluding taxes and duties. By implementing the Integrity
ensures robust oversight and adherence to ethical practices within
Pact, NTPC ensures transparency, fairness, and integrity in the
the organization. These Corporate Vigilance Department cover
tendering process, fostering an environment of trust and ethical
conduct. Corporate Vigilance Department Cells
Vigilance Mechanism • Vigilance Investigation and Processing Cell
• Departmental Proceedings Cell
To uphold transparency, objectivity, and high quality decision-
• Technical Examination Cell
making across its operations, NTPC has implemented an
• MIS Cell
ISO-9001:2015 certified Vigilance Mechanism. The Company's
40 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 41
various aspects of our Vigilance Mechanism. The responsibility Vigilance Workshops were conducted covering more than ten
for vigilance operations has been decentralized, with Regional thousand employees at various projects/ places of the Company.
Vigilance Executives assigned to Corporate Centre, ensuring
Vigilance Awareness Week
prompt resolution of matters. Regular meetings are held among
senior officials from the Vigilance Department, including the ED NTPC observed Vigilance Awareness Week 2023 across all
(Vigilance), Regional Vigilance Executives, and the Head of DRC/ offices and power plants of NTPC group including Joint Ventures
MIS Cell. These meetings foster open discussions on shared and Subsidiaries, from October 30 to November 5. The theme
challenges, aiming to establish consistent practices across all was “Say no to corruption; commit to the Nation”. During
regions. This collaborative approach promotes transparency, the three-month campaign from August 16 to November 15,
efficiency, and effectiveness among vigilance personnel, activities included awareness on PIDPI, capacity building in public
procurement, ethics, governance, cyber security, and vigilance
leveraging their collective knowledge, experience, and expertise.
functions, as well as systemic improvements and updates to
It also helps in breaking down silos and bridging gaps, enhancing
circulars and manuals.
our overall capabilities.
Vigilance work during FY 2023-24 The week commenced with the Integrity Pledge on October
30, involving NTPC locations nationwide. Various activities
During the year 2023-24 a total of 82 Vigilance complaints engaged over 21,000 participants, including employees, families,
(including complaints received under Fraud Prevention Policy) CISF personnel, associates, students, and other stakeholders.
were investigated, out of which 67 complaints have been finalized Competitions such as slogan writing, poster making, essay
and the remaining 15 are under various stages of investigation writing, quizzes, debates, and elocutions were held, emphasizing
as on 31.03.2024. Appropriate disciplinary action has also been the anti-corruption theme. Additionally, Gram Sabhas and
Nukkad Nataks were organized in villages near NTPC projects
initiated against the involved employees along with system
and stations, while workshops and training sessions were
improvements, wherever found necessary. 331 Preventive
conducted for employees, CISF personnel, and other associates,
Vigilance Checks (Surprise, Routine, CTE Type & Scrutiny of Files)
reinforcing NTPC’s commitment to transparency and integrity.
were conducted during the period and recovery of Rs 90.43 lacs
These initiatives aimed to promote awareness about corruption,
was affected against various discrepancies detected during
encourage ethical practices, and foster a culture of integrity and
checks/inspection. During the last year a total of 282 Preventive
transparency within the organization.
Timely Revision of policies: Complaint Handling Policy,
Banning/Debarment Policy, and Whistle Blower Policy revised
in last fiscal.
Reference Document developed for
Whistle Blower Complaints Through Regulation of Pay on imposition of penalty:
Digital Mode: employees can lodge Standard penalty template prepared for
complaints under the Policy online reference by Disciplinary authority while
imposing the penalty.
Audit of Corporate Vigilance Administration Standard Quality Plan for regular O&M items:
conducted: External Audit as mandated for Manufacturing Quality Plans for the regularly
ISO-9000:2015 been conducted procured O&M items have been standardized
42 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 43
Financial Capital
Overview
Management Approach NTPC is dedicated to upholding the highest standards of corporate CARE, and our foreign ratings from Fitch, S&P, and Moody’s are
governance, fostering growth, and achieving performance equivalent to sovereign ratings. We actively explore domestic
WWee ppllaaccee aa ssiiggnniifificcaanntt eemmpphhaassiiss oonn ccaappiittaall eexxppeennddiittuurree ((CCAAPPEEXX)),, eennssuurriinngg aa ddiivveerrssee ddeeppllooyymmeenntt tthhaatt aalliiggnnss excellence while prioritizing sustainability. Our strong financial and international borrowing options, aligning with our strategy of
wwiitthh oouurr lloonngg--tteerrmm oobbjjeeccttiivveess.. WWee rreeccooggnniizzee tthhee iimmppoorrttaannccee ooff eefffificciieenntt ooppeerraattiioonnss aanndd mmaaiinntteennaannccee,, aanndd position and esteemed corporate image are a direct outcome business diversification.
of our ethical and equitable corporate governance system and
ttoo tthhiiss eenndd,, wwee hhaavvee eemmbbrraacceedd ddiiggiittaalliizzaattiioonn aass aa ffuunnddaammeennttaall ccoommppoonneenntt ooff oouurr ssttrraatteeggyy.. BByy eexxtteennssiivveellyy
We invest in both backward and forward integration across the
policies. We emphasize maximizing asset utilization, efficient
iimmpplleemmeennttiinngg ddiiggiittaall ttoooollss aanndd tteecchhnnoollooggiieess,, wwee eennhhaannccee ooppeerraattiioonnaall eefffificciieennccyy aanndd ooppttiimmiizzee rreessoouurrccee energy value chain.
capital allocation, and prompt payments to our capital providers
uuttiilliizzaattiioonn.. TThhiiss aapppprrooaacchh eennaabblleess uuss ttoo aacchhiieevvee oouurr ccoommmmiittmmeenntt ttoo hhiigghh ccaappiittaall pprroodduuccttiivviittyy wwhhiillee
and suppliers to maintain a solid balance sheet. Simultaneously, While ensuring robust financial growth, we are equally committed
ssuuppppoorrttiinngg ssuussttaaiinnaabbllee ggrroowwtthh aanndd rreessoouurrccee ccoonnsseerrvvaattiioonn..
we actively seek opportunities to expand our presence and to inclusive growth. In Financial Year 2023- 24, we spent `200.57
deliver value to our investors, shareholders, and workforce while crore (on a standalone basis) on CSR initiatives, exceeding the
Key Highlights Data Trends optimizing overall expenses. Furthermore, we are committed to prescribed 2% limit. For group CSR projects on a consolidated
increasing revenue through non-fossil fuel ventures, aligning with basis, we incurred an expenditure of `254.62 crore. In addition to
our goal of sustainable development. enriching lives through CSR activities, we undertake numerous
` 1.81 Lakh Cr
initiatives to ensure environmental sustainability. These
In the Financial Year 2023-24, we achieved remarkable milestones,
initiatives include large-scale tree plantation and maintenance,
of revenues (consolidated) generated with a net profit of `21,332.45 crore on a consolidated basis and
installation of rooftop solar PV systems on power stations, public
`18,079.39 crore on a standalone basis. Our robust payment
utility buildings, and schools, as well as the implementation of
` 30.08K Cr security mechanism resulted in realizing over 100% of the billed
vermicomposting, bio-methanation plants, and paper recycling
amount in the reporting year.
machines.
worth of Economic value retained
NTPC maintains a robust financial system and prioritizes Direct Economic Value Generated and
responsible financial resource management to lower capital
` 254.62 Cr Distributed1
costs. Our weighted average cost of borrowing is most
competitive at 6.67%, reflecting our credibility. We have earned NTPC group’s operational performance in Financial Year 2023-24
of community investments
the highest credit ratings from CRISIL, ICRA, India Ratings and generated an economic value of `1,80,605.13 crore.
Material Topic(s) [11] [14] [17] Mapping with SDGs Sr. No. Particulars FY 2023-24 (` Cr)
A Direct Economic Value Generated
NGRBC Principle : [1]
1 Revenue* 1,80,605.13
Total (A) 1,80,605.13
B Direct Economic Value Distributed
2 Operating Costs 1,19,512.87
3 Employee Wages and Benefits 6,592.03
4 Payments to Providers of Capital 19,467.64
5 Payments to Government 4,694.39
6 Community Investments 254.62
7 Total (B) 1,50,521.55
A-B Economic Value Retained 30,083.58
*Except provisions and certain other items 1 GRI 201-1
44 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 45
Description of Main Description of Business % of Turnover on Operating Turnover
Activity Activity consolidated basis (` Cr)
Generation of Electricity Power Generation from – Wind 0.08 142.43
Consultancy Technical Consultancy services 0.10 169.46
Energy Trading Sale of energy through trading 5.71 10,091.86
Financial Assistance from government
NTPC operates on a self-sustained basis and consistently contributes to the Government of India through regular dividends on its
equity. Since Financial Year 2020, NTPC has successfully managed its capital investments without requiring any additional funding
from the Government of India. Moreover, the company upholds its commitment to financial independence by not relying on any direct
government benefits such as subsidies, grants, or royalties.
Financial implications due to climate change2
The growing concerns about climate change have prompted the adoption of stricter
regulations and a greater focus on renewable energy. NTPC, as a socially responsible
organization, has not only taken measures to address the risks posed by climate change 10%
but has also turned them into opportunities.
During the Financial Year 2023-24, an impressive `17,434.15 crore, accounting for a
revenue from Zero-carbon
significant 10% of the NTPC group’s total operating revenue, was derived from non- fossil
emission-based businesses
fuel endeavors. The revenue breakdown for the various renewable energy sources has
been provided in above table.
NTPC’s projects serve as catalysts for local economic growth, creating favorable conditions for local suppliers to thrive and contribute
goods and services. Additionally, NTPC goes above and beyond by extending additional facilities to project-affected families, surpassing
their entitled benefits, in accordance with government policies.
In Financial Year 2023-24, NTPC’s total income reached `1,81,165.86 crore, marking an increase from `1,77,976.39 crore in Financial
Year 2022-23. The company’s board recommended a final dividend of `3.25 per share for the Financial Year 2023-24, complementing
the aggregate interim dividends of `4.50 per share. Thus, the total dividend for Financial Year 2023-24 equals `7.75 per share.
Description of Main Description of Business % of Turnover on Operating Turnover
Activity Activity consolidated basis (` Cr)
Generation of Electricity Power Generation from - Coal 83.66 1,47,778.33
Generation of Electricity Power Generation from – Gas 6.47 11,429.23
Generation of Electricity Power Generation from – Solar 1.22 2,148.98
Generation of Electricity Power Generation from – Hydro 2.76 4,881.42
2 GRI 201-1
46 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 47
Selected Financial Information (Standalone) (` Crore)
2023-24 2022-23* 2021-22* 2020-21 2019-20
(` Crore)
D Liabilities
2023-24 2022-23* 2021-22* 2020-21 2019-20
Borrowings
A Revenue
Revenue from operations 1,61,985.03 1,63,769.77 1,21,174.55 99,206.72 97,700.39 Non-current borrowings 1,46,159.07 1,56,315.69 1,60,122.17 1,50,509.00 1,46,538.70
Other income 3,722.24 3,954.64 3,575.11 4,345.99 2,778.02 Current maturities of non-current borrowings 22,355.46 17,172.23 17,366.26 10,247.45 6,154.92
Total revenue 1,65,707.27 1,67,724.41 1,24,749.66 1,03,552.71 1,00,478.41
Total borrowings 1,68,514.53 1,73,487.92 1,77,488.43 1,60,756.45 1,52,693.62
B Expenses Other Non-current liabilities 16,337.95 13,733.74 14,427.64 13,638.31 10,182.85
Fuel 94,037.49 96,851.50 66,570.07 52,849.64 54,241.82 Current liabilities 78,304.16 72,118.27 74,151.75 58,049.71 54,704.16
Energy purchased for trading 3,881.66 3,656.26 3,450.22 3,031.25 2,776.44
Less: Current maturities of non-current borrowings 22,355.46 17,172.23 17,366.26 10,247.45 6,154.92
Employee benefits expense 5,670.10 5,559.03 5,412.07 4,942.19 4,925.60
Other expenses 15,213.43 14,474.59 9,717.19 9,580.28 8,663.81 Net Current liabilities 55,948.70 54,946.04 56,785.49 47,802.26 48,549.24
Profit before depreciation, finance cost and tax 46,904.59 47,183.03 39,600.11 33,149.35 29,870.74 Deferred Revenue 2,328.01 2,616.87 1,973.39 1,994.41 2,672.30
Depreciation, amortization and impairment expense 13,943.15 13,136.71 12,058.24 10,411.80 8,622.85
Regulatory deferral account credit balances 280.32 - - - -
Profit before finance cost and tax 32,961.44 34,046.32 27,541.87 22,737.55 21,247.89
E Net-worth
Finance costs 10,250.82 9,979.23 8,216.54 7,459.03 6,781.97
Profit before exceptional items tax and Equity 9,696.67 9,696.67 9,696.67 9,696.67 9,894.56
22,710.62 24,067.09 19,325.33 15,278.52 14,465.92
regulatory deferral account balances Other Equity 1,40,188.35 1,29,193.21 1,18,970.85 1,09,288.82 1,03,674.88
Exceptional Items (+) income/ (-) loss 834.55 - - (1,363.00) -
Networth 1,49,885.02 1,38,889.88 1,28,667.52 1,18,985.49 1,13,569.44
Profit before tax 23,545.17 24,067.09 19,325.33 13,915.52 14,465.92
Networth excluding Fly ash utilisation reserve fund,
Tax expense 6,600.03 6,279.27 4,457.77 1,925.39 9,181.95
Corporate social responsibility (CSR) reserve & 1,48,771.01 1,38,069.76 1,27,982.41 1,18,306.11 1,13,031.54
Profit for the year before regulatory deferral account balances 16,945.14 17,787.82 14,867.56 11,990.13 5,283.97
reserve for Equity instruments through OCI
Net movement in regulatory deferral account balances (net of tax) 1,134.25 (591.09) 1,414.43 1,779.39 4,828.84
Total Liabilities 3,93,294.53 3,83,674.45 3,79,342.47 3,43,176.92 3,27,667.45
Profit for the year 18,079.39 17,196.73 16,281.99 13,769.52 10,112.81
F Value added 60,624.46 59,314.62 48,446.40 42,965.45 37,586.93
Other comprehensive income/(expense)
15.26 (75.70) (87.65) (68.19) (327.22)
for the year (net of income tax) G Number of shares 9,69,66,66,134 9,69,66,66,134 9,69,66,66,134 9,69,66,66,134 9,89,45,57,280
Total comprehensive income for the year 18,094.65 17,121.03 16,194.34 13,701.33 9,785.59
H Number of employees 14,983 15,159 15,786 16,798 17,398
Dividend 7,272.50 7,030.08 6,933.12 5,531.06 2,968.37
Dividend tax - - - - 607.80 I Ratios
Retained profit 10,806.89 10,166.65 9,348.87 8,238.46 6,536.64 Return on Net Worth (Profit for the year/Average Shareholder's
12.52 12.85 13.15 11.84 9.15
C Assets Equity) (%)
Property, plant & equipment 2,11,323.43 1,96,441.71 1,95,084.07 1,63,892.12 1,56,273.02 Book value per Share (`) 154.57 143.23 132.69 122.71 114.78
Capital work-in-progress 47,153.81 61,743.88 73,519.11 75,343.60 73,066.76
Earnings per share (`) 18.64 17.73 16.79 13.99 10.22
Investment property 859.90 465.18 - - -
Current ratio 0.92 0.91 0.80 0.82 0.89
Intangible assets 427.69 454.17 486.47 556.74 538.28
Intangible assets under development 3.19 44.92 98.47 94.90 292.52 Debt equity ratio {(Non Current Borrowings+Current Borrowings)/
1.24 1.34 1.50 1.46 1.46
(Total Equity)}
Total Fixed Assets (Net block) 2,59,768.02 2,59,149.86 2,69,188.12 2,39,887.36 2,30,170.58
Value added per employee (` crore) 4.05 3.91 3.07 2.56 2.16
Investments in Subsidiaries, JVs & Others (Non-current) 33,107.93 29,719.75 23,249.37 28,125.65 26,400.89
Other non-current financial assets 2,596.74 4,556.18 2,306.48 2,686.96 2,003.86 * Restated. Balance-sheet figures in the column for FY 2021-22 represent restated figures as at 1 April 2022.
Other non-current assets 11,938.70 12,353.64 12,355.11 13,790.02 11,464.50
@ Earnings per share for the year ended 31 March 2021 has been computed on the basis of weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year i.e., 984,46,77,868
Current assets 72,356.14 65,812.53 59,402.42 47,543.21 48,504.86
shares considering buy back of 19,78,91,146 fully paid-up equity shares completed on 30 December 2020.
Assets held for sale 117.19 120.52 18.09 - -
Regulatory deferral account debit balances 13,409.81 11,961.97 12,822.88 11,143.72 9,122.76
Total Assets 3,93,294.53 3,83,674.45 3,79,342.47 3,43,176.92 3,27,667.45
48 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 49
Manufactured Capital
Overview NTPC is committed to enhancing the efficiency and effectiveness
of its power generation assets through policies and practices that
Management Approach
At NTPC, our manufactured capital is dedicated to optimizing
emphasize the conservation of natural resources and the long-
the use of material resources and energy consumption in the
term sustainability of the manufacturing ecosystem. By strategic
OOuurr mmaannaaggeemmeenntt aapppprrooaacchh iiss aanncchhoorreedd iinn aa ssttrroonngg ccoommmmiittmmeenntt ttoo tthhrreeee ccoorree oobbjjeeccttiivveess:: pprroodduucciinngg
electricity generation process. This includes a wide array of
planning, leveraging technological advancements, and practicing
ppoowweerr aatt tthhee lloowweesstt ccoosstt,, mmiinniimmiizziinngg eemmiissssiioonnss,, aanndd eennssuurriinngg tthhee hhiigghheesstt lleevveell ooff ssaaffeettyy.. TThheessee ggooaallss aarree
physical assets such as power generating stations, captive
responsible resource management, NTPC aims to improve the
ffuunnddaammeennttaall ttoo oouurr ooppeerraattiioonnss aanndd ddrriivvee oouurr ppuurrssuuiitt ooff ssuussttaaiinnaabbllee pprraaccttiicceess.. TToo aacchhiieevvee tthheemm,, wwee ffooccuuss coal mines, equipment, machinery, raw materials, and logistic
performance and resilience of its manufacturing infrastructure,
oonn ccoonnttiinnuuoouuss rreesseeaarrcchh aanndd ddeevveellooppmmeenntt,, ffoosstteerriinngg aa ccuullttuurree ooff iinnnnoovvaattiioonn tthhaatt hheellppss rreedduuccee bbootthh ccaappiittaall infrastructure essential for power production.
promoting an environmentally conscious and sustainable future.
eexxppeennddiittuurree ((CCAAPPEEXX)) aanndd ooppeerraattiioonnaall eexxppeennddiittuurree ((OOPPEEXX)).. BByy ooppttiimmiizziinngg oouurr ooppeerraattiioonnaall ccaappaabbiilliittiieess aanndd
fflleexxiibbiilliittyy,, wwee aarree wweellll--ppoossiittiioonneedd ttoo mmeeeett tthhee eevvoollvviinngg nneeeeddss aanndd eexxppeeccttaattiioonnss ooff oouurr ccuussttoommeerrss,, ppllaacciinngg uuss
NTPC’s Business Verticals
aatt tthhee ffoorreeffrroonntt ooff ssuussttaaiinnaabbiilliittyy iinn tthhee eenneerrggyy iinndduussttrryy..
Green
Key Highlights Data Trends Power Waste to Energy Consultancy EV Ash
Hydrogen & Mining
Generation Energy Trading Services Ecosystem Management
Chemicals
74.64 GW Thermal Green Coal Thermal Cross Border Technical Electric Fly Ash
Power Hydrogen Mining Gasification Trading Consultancy Vehicles Products
total installed capacity based WtE
Renewable Road &
3.26 GW Power Me G t r h e a e n n o l, MSW to Do P m ow es e t r i c Cha E r V g ing Flyover
4G Ethanol & Charcoal Trading Infrastructure
Hydro Cement
Ammonia
capacity Installed in reporting year Power Industry
Nuclear
422.2 BU Power
total generation
Power Generation
0.33 GW NTPC, being the largest power generating company in the country, NTPC has set an ambitious target of establishing a substantial
Mapping with SDGs
operates a total of 92 power stations across various Indian share of its installed capacity through renewable energy sources
non-fossil capacity added in
states, either independently or through its JVs and subsidiaries. by 2032, further reinforcing its commitment to a sustainable
reporting year
The details of portfolio has been provided in subsequent future. In the Financial Year 2023-24, NTPC achieved remarkable
section. The broad mix of energy sources demonstrates the progress by recording a substantial growth of 4.68% (YoY) in
group’s commitment to leverage renewable and clean energy its non-fossil portfolio capacity, which plays a vital role in the
Material Topic : [3] [4] [17]
technologies while maintaining a sustainable and reliable company’s sustainability strategy i.e. The Brighter Plan 2032.
power supply for the nation. The state-wise installed capacity & These achievements underscore NTPC’s unwavering dedication
generation can be referred from NTPC website. to clean energy transition and its contribution towards achieving
a greener and more sustainable energy landscape.
Notably, in the Financial Year 2023-24, we achieved an all-time
high- power generation of 422 BU , marking a remarkable growth Installed Capacity and Generation
of 5.75% compared to the previous year. Our core focus lies in
NTPC, a leading power company in India, demonstrates
power generation, as we strive to contribute significantly to India’s
a strong commitment to provide uninterrupted and
energy and economic growth, ultimately creating sustainable
affordable power, bringing immense benefits to even the
long-term value for our stakeholders.
most remote corners of the country. With an impressive
50 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 51
total installed capacity of 74.64 GW for the entire group, including allied companies with an installed capacity of 15.56 GW, NTPC Gas Sourcing and discourage crop residue burning by providing economic
plays a pivotal role, accounting for approximately 17% of the nation’s total installed capacity and contributing nearly a quarter value to crop residue, thereby generating additional income for
NTPC has established long-term Gas Supply Agreements (GSAs)
of country’s power supply. Notably, Total Capacity (Including International) declared commercial during 2023-24 is 3.92 GW. farmers and creating employment in rural areas. Biomass co-
with GAIL for the supply of Administered Price Mechanism (APM)
This remarkable progress underscores the company’s relentless efforts to expand its energy portfolio and contribute to the nation’s firing leverages existing coal-based power plant infrastructure
gas and non-APM gas, valid until July 6, 2026. However, due to
energy sector. Also, in the reporting year, NTPC decommissioned 2X110 MW of thermal units at its Barauni Plant. to produce renewable energy. Biomass is a carbon-neutral
the diversion of allocated gas to the City Gas Distribution (CGD)
fuel recognized by the UNFCCC for reducing greenhouse gas
sector as per Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas guidelines,
emissions.
FY 2021-22 FY 2022-23* FY 2023-24* domestic gas supplies to NTPC power plants have been nil since
June 16, 2021. NTPC also holds a long-term agreement with GAIL Following the successful demonstration of biomass co-firing at
Gross Capacity Gross Gen Gross Capacity Gross Gen Gross Capacity Gross Gen for the supply of 1.36 MMSCMD of RLNG on a firm basis, valid the Dadri plant, NTPC has scaled up commercial biomass co-
(MW) (BU) (MW) (BU) (MW) (BU)
Break up of Biomass Sourcing (MMT)
Coal 56,874 337.27 58,154 376.33 60,874 395.24 Break up of Gas Sourcing (MMSCM)
Gas/Liquid 6,511 8.60 6,511 5.18 6,511 7.65
Hydro 3,725 12.09 3,725 12.88 3,725 12.39
Renewable Energy 1,852 2.55 3,204 4.92 3,528 6.93
Total 68,962 360.51 71,594 399.31 74,638 422.22
* Excluding International Portfolio
Fuel Security
At NTPC, we adhere to sustainable production and consumption Limited (NLCIL) for coal supply from NLCIL’s Talabira captive
principles, striving for high operational efficiency to minimize the mine to NTPC’s Lara plant, enhancing cost efficiency. For FY
consumption of primary resources such as coal, gas, biomass, and 2023-24, ACQ materialization from CIL and SCCL was 92.8%,
water. Effective management of raw materials not only benefits with NTPC plants receiving 34.2 MMT from captive mines and 6
our stakeholders but also positively impacts our environment. By MMT from NLCIL’s Talabira mine through an MoU. Additionally,
optimizing resource use, we can reduce electricity tariffs, making NTPC awarded an imported coal contract of 19.977 MMT for
energy more affordable for everyone. Additionally, minimizing FY 2022-23 as per the Ministry of Power’s directive dated until April 2028. To address the shortfall in long-term domestic firing at other stations. NTPC has awarded contracts for 5.285
resource extraction and waste generation helps preserve the December 7, 2021. gas/RLNG supply, NTPC procures Spot RLNG on a limited tender million MT of biomass pellets for 20 NTPC stations and one joint
environment and promote sustainability. basis from domestic suppliers and on a ‘Single Offer’ basis venture (APCPL-Jhajjar), with a total receipt of 256,801 MT of
Break up of Coal Sourcing (MMT) from public sector gas marketing companies, with contracts biomass pellets at 13 NTPC stations and APCPL-Jhajjar till date.
Recognizing the importance of fuel availability for the nation's
based on a ‘Reasonable Endeavour’ basis to avoid penalties
energy security, NTPC continuously explores new fuel sources Strategy for scaling-up Biomass Use
for short supply or short off-take. Additionally, NTPC has been
and engages in long-term supply contracts to ensure the
procuring Spot RLNG on a commitment basis since March 2020,  Short-Term
uninterrupted operation of its plants.
subject to the consent of beneficiary DISCOMs, and maintains
• Orders have been placed for 837,200 MT of biomass
Coal Sourcing adequate stocks of liquid fuel to meet grid requirements. NTPC under various short-term contracts.
also began procuring gas through the Indian Gas Exchange • Benchmark prices have been established for the NCR,
NTPC has secured Long-term Fuel Supply Agreements (FSAs) (IGX) in November 2023. Gas consumption for FY 2023-24 was Northern and Western regions.
with Coal India Limited (CIL) subsidiaries and Singareni approximately 913 MMSCM for NTPC plants, with an additional • Work is in progress for procurement of biomass pellets at
Collieries Company Limited (SCCL). As of March 31, 2024, these 86 MMSCM of LTRLNG gas diverted to RGPPL. benchmark prices for eight stations in the Western region.
agreements cover an Annual Contracted Quantity (ACQ) of 214.45
 Long-Term
Million Metric Tonnes (MMT) with CIL and 27.99 MMT with SCCL Biomass Sourcing
• A long-term contract (4 years) for 408,800 MT for the
for existing thermal power stations, valid for 20 years with a five- NTPC has become the first company in India to commercialize Dadri plant was awarded.
year review provision. Additionally, NTPC has signed a two-year biomass co-firing, integrating up to 10% agro-residue-based
• NIT published for long-term procurement of biomass
swapping agreement effective from April 7, 2022, transferring 2.4 biofuel with coal. This initiative aims to reduce carbon emissions
pellets for all 25 stations
MMT of its Mahanadi Coalfields Limited (MCL) ACQ to NLC India
52 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 53
Renewable Energy 4 GW/24 GWh capacity energy storage solutions with the Besides above 4 GW capacity, NTPC and its other Subsidiaries
portfolio of renewable energy projects, including large-scale solar,
following break up: are adding additional 2 GW of pump storage hydro system.
India’s energy landscape is undergoing a shift towards non-fossil floating solar and wind projects, Ultra Mega Renewable Energy
energy, and NTPC is at the forefront of this transition. We are Power Parks (UMREPPs), energy storage, green hydrogen hubs S. No Energy Storage Type Capacity (MW/MWh) NTPC is one of the four Renewable Energy Implementing Agencies
committed towards ensuring equitable access to clean energy, and applications like green mobility, green chemicals, etc. NTPC 1 BESS 500 MW/ 3000 MWh (REIAs) (other are SECI, NHPC & SJVN). We have successfully
saving precious water and gradually reducing India’s dependence group has invested ` 5203 crore in various RE projects and 2 BESS 1500 MW/ 9000 MWh achieved our target of issuing tenders for a cumulative capacity
on fossil fuels. ` 3247 Crore in Hydro projects in FY 2023-24. 3 PSP 2000 MW/ 12000 MWh of 15 GW, aligning with the MNRE bidding trajectory of REIA.
We’re aiming to commission 60 GW capacity by 2032 through NTPC group has commissioned 3.5 GW of renewable energy
our group of companies including subsidiaries NTPC Green capacity which comprises of 3.3 GW of solar, 213 MW of wind
Energy Limited (NGEL), NTPC Renewable Energy Limited (NREL), and 32 MW of Small Hydro capacity. A snapshot of our present
THDC and NEEPCO. These subsidiaries are developing a diverse portfolio is tabulated below:
Break-up of NTPC group projects (MW) is shown below:
Capacity (MW) NTPC NGEL NTPC REL THDC & NEEPCO NTPC Group
Commissioned 411 2725 200 192 3528
Solar 403 2675 150 55 3283
Wind 0 50 50 113 213
Small Hydro 8 0 0 24 32
Under Execution 1034 1394 5702 300 8430
Solar 1034 1086 4550 300 6970
Wind 0 308 1152 0 1460
Under Tendering 82 200 8773 300 9355
Solar 82 200 3183 300 3765 Partial list of MoUs in RE domain
Wind 0 0 5590 0 5590
1. NGEL and UPRVUNL (Uttar Pradesh Rajya Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Limited) for development of RE projects in Uttar Pradesh
Total 1527 4319 14675 792 21313
2. NGEL and ONGC (Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited) for Renewable Energy Projects
3. NREL and Government of Gujarat for development of 15 GW RE Parks
NTPC REL has already established a land bank with ISTS In addition to developing RE capacities by NTPC group of 4. NGEL and Government of Maharashtra for Pump Storage and RE
connectivity for 6 GW of future projects. These projects include a companies, parallel capacity addition through outsourcing mode
5. NGEL and HMEL (HPCL Mittal Energy Limited) for development of RE projects
2 GW of project at Bikaner I, 2 GW at Bikaner II, and 2 GW capacity has been adapted successfully by NTPC. More than 5 GW of solar
6. NGEL and RVUNL (Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Ltd.) for development of 25 GW RE Project and ESS
for projects at fatehgarh. capacity has been established in this mode while more than 3
GW is under execution and 9.5 GW is under tendering.
* NGEL: NTPC Green Energy Limited
We are exploring ways to add various Ultra Mega Renewable
* NREL: NTPC Renewable Energy Limited
Energy Power Parks (UMREPP) with cumulative capacity of NTPC is actively pursuing energy storage, which has become a
36 GW in different states of the country. Currently, UMREPP at necessity in view of inherent variability in RE sources of power
Gujarat (4.8 GW), DVC (.7 GW) and Madhya Pradesh (0.6 GW) are generation. In addition to pumped storage systems and battery
Roof Top Solar Projects implementation of Roof Top Solar PV Projects at the institutes
in the advance stages of development. energy storage, hydrogen energy storage is also being explored.
under various ministries. Besides MNRE has been allocated 16
NTPC, through its subsidiary NVVN, has also ventured into small-
NTPC REL is executing a 500kW solar based off-grid power
Central Ministries for saturation of government buildings with
NTPC is presently operating floating solar capacity at five scale renewable projects which are integral to the Company’s
generation system coupled with a 250kW/1200kWh BESS
roof top solar projects. During this financial year, 2.5 MW solar
locations comprising 262 MW, out of which 100 MW capacity at strategy of energy diversification and sustainability. To fast
system to provide construction power to under execution solar
capacity has been successfully implemented.
Telangana is the biggest such setup in India. We are executing track the implementation of roof top solar projects and ground
project in Khavda region, avoiding DG sets in totality. Hydrogen as
another 316 MW of Floating solar capacity at NTPC stations and an energy storage system is being developed in off-grid remote mounted solar projects, we have finalized empanelment for National Solar Mission
another 1 GW of capacities are in the pipeline. small scale solar projects on pan-India basis. NVVN has been
areas to provide RE-RTC. NTPC REL has issued tenders for The Government of India designated NTPC (through its subsidiary
designated as “Expert PSU” by the Ministry of New & Renewable
NVVN) as the Nodal Agency for Phase I of the National Solar
Energy (MNRE) for providing Consultancy services for the
Mission (NSM), aimed at establishing India as a global leader in
54 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 55
solar energy. This initiative, which is part of the National Action projects are in different stages of implementation. More Green Hydrogen and Chemicals is being powered by a 1.7 MW co-located solar plant. This
Plan on Climate Change, mandates NTPC to purchase power countries are being approached for assignments on similar project is located at an elevation of 3500 m above MSL, a
lines.
from solar projects and sell it bundled with power from NTPC NTPC has been exploring the use of hydrogen as a substitute for first of its kind globally. The trial run of one bus has already
coal stations to Distribution Utilities. The total commissioned • ISA Rooftop Solar Projects: NTPC was appointed as PMC for fossil fuel. This is to achieve energy security and decarbonization been successfully demonstrated.
implementation of 100kW Roof Top Solar Project in Ethiopia
capacity under Phase I of NSM is 733 MW. During FY 2023-24, of the energy sector. To achieve these objectives a number of pilot iii) Green Hydrogen fuelling station is being setup at Greater
and Sao Tome under ISA Prog-04.
NTPC supplied 5524 MUs of bundled total power, including 916 projects have been launched. These cover concentrated use like Noida, U.P. with a capacity of 260 kg/day and 5 number of
• ISA 27 Solar Demonstration Projects: NTPC was appointed
MUs of solar power, to various states and utilities. This effort as PMC for implementation of solarization projects in 10 power generation to distributed use like mobility and household FCEVs for intracity travel in Delhi NCR.
enhances national energy security, promotes environmental countries viz. Seychelles, Senegal, Djibouti, Cuba, Ethiopia, cooking purpose.
iv) A Solar-hydrogen storage system is planned to provide
sustainability, and aligns with global climate goals by diversifying Suriname, Burundi, Mozambique, Malawi and Uganda, across
round-the-clock RE power supply (RE-RTC) at an elevation
three themes: (i) Solarization of building roof-top/ ground Below are some of the key Initiatives:
NTPC's energy portfolio and reducing its carbon footprint.
mounted PV installation, (ii) Solar based Cold Storages and of 4500 m above MSL.
(iii) Solar PV based Water Pumping Systems. Your Company i) NTPC has setup up India’s first Green Hydrogen Blending
International Solar Projects v) A green hydrogen hub spreading over 1200 acres is being
has also prepared the DPRs for such projects in 21 different facility to blend green hydrogen in Piped Natural Gas (PNG)
NTPC has been actively engaged in various international solar countries under the same ISA initiative. network at Kawas, Gujarat. It was commissioned in Jan’23 developed in the state of Andhra Pradesh focusing on
production of green chemicals like methanol, ammonia and
projects, showcasing its expertise and contributions to the and is currently operating with 8% v/v of green hydrogen
Projects in 5 countries (Seychelles, Cuba, Malawi, Uganda, and
setting up allied manufacturing facilities.
renewable energy sector. Further, NTPC is associated as a blending, which is the highest so far achieved in India.
Ethiopia) have been successfully commissioned. Projects in
Corporate Partner with International Solar Alliance (ISA) and has vi) Techno-economic feasibility study for deployment of green
other 5 countries are in various stages of implementation. ii) Green Hydrogen Mobility project of production capacity
been awarded the following Project Management Consultancy hydrogen-based locomotive for operation within NTPC is
80 kg/day is under execution at Leh, Ladakh. The Project
(PMC) projects abroad: Overall, NTPC’s involvement in international solar projects spans under process.
involves 5 number of FCEVs for intracity travel in Leh. This
project management, capacity building, and technical assistance.
• ISA Solar Parks: NTPC was appointed as PMC (under the aegis
of ISA Program 06) for 100 MW solar project in Republic of This demonstrates its commitment to promoting renewable
Guinea in the current financial year, thereby enabling cumulative energy globally and supporting the objectives of the International
capacity of such PMC assignments to reach 6620MW. The
Solar Alliance.
Achievements
I. First Project Commissioned: NTPC REL's maiden 50 MW/150 MW wind farm began operation at Dayapar, Gujarat on
November 4, 2023.
II. Solar Expansion: A 150 MW solar plant in Chhatargarh, Rajasthan, came online with 70 MW commissioned on
21.02.2024 and 80 MW on 29.03.2024, marking NTPC REL's official foray into solar power generation.
III. Record-Breaking Speed: A 14 MW solar project in Ayodhya, Uttar Pradesh, achieved completion in a remarkable
duration of 4 months, and was commissioned on January 27, 2024.
IV. Power Purchase Agreements: PPAs for 2.8 GW capacity were signed.
Partial list of MoUs in Hydrogen domain
V. Solar Module Procurement: Three separate 2.5 GW solar module packages were awarded for five projects.
1. NGEL and GPPL (Gujarat Pipavav Port Limited) for land in Pipavav Port for Green Ammonia Project
2. NGEL and SCI (Shipping Corporation of India), for supply of green Methanol
VI. Green Hydrogen Milestone: Regulatory approval from PNGRB was received for 8% v/v green hydrogen-PNG blending
3. NGEL and GSPC (Gujarat State Petroleum Corporation) for H2 blending in NG network and green mobility
on November 3, 2023, following successful operation and testing.
4. NGEL and Nayara Energy for Production of Green Hydrogen
VII. Fuel Cell Vehicle Testing: Field trial of a fuel cell electric vehicle (FCEV) bus in Leh was completed on August 17, 5. NGEL and HMEL (HPCL Mittal Energy Limited) for development of Green Hydrogen derivatives
2023. 6. NGEL and Government of Maharashtra for Green Hydrogen
7. NREL and Government of Gujarat for development of 5 GW GH2 technologies
VIII. Financial Backing: NGEL and NTPC REL secured green term loan agreements
8. NGEL and RVUNL (Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Ltd.) for development of Green Hydrogen and its derivatives
*NGEL: NTPC Green Energy Limited
56 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 57
Coal Production (Million Tonne)
Nuclear Power
Projects
FY 22-23 FY 23-24 Growth (%)
To accelerate the transition to clean energy, NTPC has diversified regulatory approvals and simultaneously enhance their technical
Pakri-Barwadih 13.22 16.31 23.37
its business portfolio to include nuclear energy. NTPC has capability.
already established a Nuclear Cell in Mumbai to maintain regular Dulanga 7.00 7.00 --
Furthermore, NTPC board has approved the proposal for
interactions with DAE departments and develop nuclear capability. Talaipalli 2.40 7.54 212.50
formation of wholly owned subsidiary of NTPC for nuclear energy
A joint venture company of NPCIL (Nuclear Power Corporation of Chatti-Bariatu 0.58 3.30 469.00
business. NTPC subsidiary company shall explore the available
India Limited) and NTPC, i.e. ASHVINI (Anu Shakti Vidyut Nigam
technologies like SMR, PWR, EPR, FBR, Fuel etc. with suitable Kerandari 0 0.24 --
Limited) has been formed with equity partnership of 51:49
tie up. Total 23.20 34.39 48.23
respectively. Currently, Mahi Banswara Rajasthan Atomic Power
Project (MBRAPP 4x700 MW) is under transfer from NPCIL to For supply of nuclear fuel, NTPC board has approved the draft
ASHVINI. A joint team of NTPC and NPCIL executives are actively MOU with UCIL for joint techno-commercial due diligence of Waste to Energy
involved in pre-project activities of MBRAPP project to expedite overseas Uranium assets for possible acquisition.
With commitment to a clean and green environment and firing trial runs. This project will divert waste from landfills, reduce
in support of the Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM), NTPC has greenhouse gas emissions by approximately 1.7 lakh MT of CO2
actively pursued several waste-to-energy (WtE) projects. These annually, and prevent groundwater contamination, while also
initiatives convert waste materials into valuable products creating job opportunities and supporting local economies. NTPC
like green charcoal, promoting both waste management and has awarded EPC contracts for WtE plants in MSW to torrefied
green energy production goals. Through these indigenous WtE charcoal plant at Bhopal (400TPD), Hubballi Dharwad (200TPD),
projects, NTPC strives to realize the vision of "Atmanirbhar Noida-Greater Noida (900TPD) and Gorakhpur (500TPD).
Bharat," emphasizing self-reliance and independence. The green The company has signed MOUs with various urban bodies,
charcoal produced from municipal solid waste (MSW) reduces including the Urban Development Department of Uttar Pradesh
reliance on fossil fuels, enhances energy security, and fosters and Haldwani-Kathgodam Nagar Nigam, to further expand
sustainable development. NTPC completed the 600 TPD Waste these initiatives. Discussions are also ongoing with municipal
to Charcoal project in Varanasi, inaugurated by the Hon’ble Prime corporations in Lucknow, Bareilly, Meerut, Ghaziabad, Gurgaon,
Minister in February 2024, producing 500 MT of green charcoal and Delhi.
during testing, with 200 MT transported to NTPC Tanda for co-
Coal Mining
NTPC has been allocated six coal blocks by the Ministry of Coal: to become one of the largest captive coal mining companies
Pakri-Barwadih, Chatti-Bariatu & Chatti-Bariatu (South), Kerandari, in India. In FY 2023-24, NTPC achieved its highest-ever coal
Dulanga, Talaipalli, and Badam. Additionally, the Banhardih coal production of 34.39 MMT, marking a 48% increase over the
block is allocated to M/s. Patratu Vidyut Utapadan Nigam Ltd. previous fiscal year. The highest-ever coal dispatch of 34 MMT in
(PVUNL), a JV of NTPC. NTPC Mining Limited (NML) was declared FY 2023-24 represented a 55.50% growth over the previous year.
the successful bidder for the North Dhadu (eastern part) coal Since inception, these mines have delivered over 103 million MT
mine in September 2023, with an allotment agreement signed of coal to more than 22 NTPC thermal plants by March 2024. The
later that month. The estimated extractable reserves of these coal from these captive mines is highly valued for its consistent
blocks is approximately 2.80 billion tonnes, with a combined quality, size, and absence of impurities.
mining capacity of 86 million tonnes per annum, positioning NTPC
58 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 59
Energy Trading power from Gas-Based Plants (GBP) for March to June 2024. As The E-buses in Andaman & Nicobar Islands have been in development works etc. Seventeen stations have achieved 100%
of March 2024, the Company has been appointed as the BESS commercial operation for the past three years, collectively logging ash utilization.
In the reporting year, 13894 MU of energy was traded on the
Implementing Agency by the Ministry of Power for a 4000MWh approximately 6 million kilometres. Meanwhile, the E-buses in
Power Exchange, including cross-border transactions. Efforts to Maximize Utilization of Fly Ash
BESS capacity project. Additionally, your Company acquired a 5% Bengaluru have also been in commercial operation, covering
stake in Power Exchange of India Ltd. (PXIL) in January 2022, • Supplying Fly Ash to the Cement Industry
Cross Border Trading over 10 million kilometres as of March 31, 2024. These initiatives
enhancing its strategic position in the power trading market. In underscore our commitment to sustainable transportation and • Use of Fly Ash Bricks
The Government of India has designated NTPC (through
the reporting year, 13894 MU of energy was traded on the Power
our role in reducing carbon emissions. • Supply of Bottom/ Pond Ash for Road/ Flyover Construction
subsidiary NVVN) as the Nodal Agency for cross-border power
Exchange, including cross-border transactions. Projects
trading with Bangladesh, Bhutan, and Nepal, entrusting it with a
Ash Management
Consultancy Services • Landfills and low-lying area development
pivotal role in the development of this market. NTPC has signed
a PPA with the Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB) for Ash, a by-product of coal-fired thermal power plants, is • Use of Ash in Reclamation of Mine Voids
In 2023-24, we executed 93 active consultancy assignments
the supply of 250 MW power for 25 years from NTPC stations. across various sectors, including thermal and solar power increasingly recognized as a valuable resource in civil • Ash-based light weight building materials
Additionally, the agreement with BPDB for the supply of 160 MW engineering. Efforts at various levels have led to significant
projects, environmental compliance, O&M and R&M services, • Use of Ash in Agriculture
power has been extended until March 2026, with a back-to-back distribution, IT, and more. Major projects included Project achievements in ash utilization. NTPC emphasizes sustainable
• Export to other contries for infrastructure development
Power Sale Agreement (PSA) signed with Tripura State Electricity Management Consultancy (PMC) for THDC and SJVN, pre and ash utilization, implementing an Ash Policy that addresses the
Corporation Limited (TSECL). Furthermore, a PPA was signed post-award services for several thermal projects, consultancy entire lifecycle of ash, from generation to end product. This policy Further, NTPC is dedicatedly working towards increasing the Ash
in September 2018 with BPDB for supplying 300 MW Round- utilization through sustainable ways mainly through products that
for NCL and CCL solar projects, and FGD installations. As Project aims to maximize productive ash use while fulfilling social and
the-Clock (RTC) power from Damodar Valley Corporation to includes Ash-based coarse aggregate, Ash-based fine aggregate
Implementing Agency (PIA) for RDSS in J&K, we awarded 7 out of environmental responsibilities, protecting the environment, and
Bangladesh, totaling 710 MW supplied to BPDB. In the financial (sand), Ash bricks, Ash-based paver blocks, other Ash-based
9 packages. Notably, we secured new orders for Amarkantak TPS promoting sustainability.
year 2023-24, 5341 MUs of energy was supplied to BPDB. precast elements etc. For manufacturing coarse aggregate, four
expansion, HTPS Korba USC Plant, and DPR preparation for OPGC
Additionally, a PPA with Nepal Electricity Authority (NEA) was and DVC Mejia. We also provided HR services to CSPGCL and During Financial Year 2023-24, approximately ~95 million tons technologies are being worked upon: Nano Concrete Aggregate
signed for the supply of up to 200 MW power from 07.04.2023 IT solutions like the DREAMS system. Our consultancy services of ash was generated by NTPC Group stations and ~92 % i.e., (NACA), Geopolymer Coarse Aggregate (GPCA), Light Weight
to 31.05.2023 under bilateral mode. NTPC is also involved in cater to central and state governments, private companies, and ~88 million tons of ash had been gainfully utilized in various Aggregate (LWA) & Fly Ash Lime Gypsum (FAL-G). They are in
Cross Border Electricity Trade (CBET) through power exchange NTPC subsidiaries. areas such as issue to industries for cement, concrete, bricks/ various stages of production / development. The products are
platforms, trading power for NEA through the Day Ahead Market blocks making, road embankment construction, mine filling, land being marketed under the brand name “VIKALP”.
EV Ecosystem
and Real-Time Market platforms. The Power Trading Agreement
with NEA for sale/purchase of power through Power Exchange Our Company has ventured into the e-mobility sector, providing
has been extended till 2030. During this financial year, 2867 MUs zero-emission vehicles and comprehensive turnkey solutions
of energy was traded for NEA through these platforms. Also, across various vehicle segments, particularly addressing the
Ministry of Power, GoI, has nominated NTPC as Settlement Nodal needs of public transport. Embracing green transport solutions,
Agency (SNA) for settlement of Grid operation related charges your Company has supplied 40 E-buses to the Department of
with neighbouring countries Transport in Andaman & Nicobar Islands and 90 E-buses to the
Bengaluru Metropolitan Transport Corporation.
Domestic Power Trading
NTPC (through subsidiary NVVN) has excelled in expanding
its customer base, selling captive power, and engaging in
power trading and banking arrangements across India. The
customer base now exceeds 100, including state government
utilities, private power utilities, Independent Power Producers
(IPPs), industrial customers, and captive power generators. An
agreement has been signed with Haryana for supply of power
200 MW and 300 MW power from Nepal Electricity Authority
and Kameng HEP respectively. The Company has successfully
implemented the Government of India's scheme to supply
power from gas-based plants during peak periods from April
to June 2023 and issued NIT for procuring up to 1215 MW of
60 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 61
Installed Capacity and Gross Generation of FY’24 for Group Stations
STATE / UT Station Source Installed Gross Capacity (MW) GROSS GEN(MU)
NR
Singrauli Coal 2000 15756
Rihand Coal 3000 23400
Unchahar Coal 1550 8465
Tanda Coal 1760 10397
Dadri Coal 1820 9983
Auraiya Gas 663 698
Dadri Gas 830 921
Uttar Pradesh Dadri Solar 5 5.81
Unchahar Solar 10 13.00
Auraiya Solar 20 29.47
Bilhaur Solar 225 451.67
Auraiya (FS) Solar 20 38.85
Boundary Wall using wall blocks Ash-based Park bench
Ayodhya Solar 14 4.75
THDC Dhukwan (Subs) Hydro 24 74.9
MUNL- Meja (JV) Coal 1320 8276
TOTAL Uttar Pradesh 13261 78514
THDC Tehri (Subs) Hydro 1000 3249
Uttarakhand
THDC Koteshwar (Subs) Hydro 400 1193
TOTAL UttUttarakhand 1400 4442
Himachal Pradesh Koldam Hydro 800 2952.01
Faridabad Gas 432 137
Haryana Faridabad Solar 5 6.10
APCPL-Jhajjar (JV) Coal 1500 8285
TOTAL Haryana 1937 8428
Anta Gas 419 354
Bhadla Solar 260 424
Jetsar Solar 160 351
Fatehgarh Solar 296 758
Rajasthan
Kolyat Solar 400 1016
Devikot Solar 240 580
LWA Plant at NTPC Sipat Use of Ash in agriculture
Nokhra Solar 300 698
Chhattargarh Solar 150 19
TOTAL Rajasthan 2225 4201
NR TOTAL 19623 98537
Gypsum Utilisation
Mouda Coal 2320 14909
This year, we began selling Flue Gas Desulfurization (FGD) gypsum cement industries. By providing FGD gypsum, we aim to eliminate Solapur Coal 1320 7181
Maharastra
from our thermal stations, aligning with our environmental the cement industry's reliance on imported gypsum, ensuring a RGPPL (Subs) Gas 1967 1228
sustainability goals. FGD gypsum, a by-product of removing sulfur consistent and reliable supply while enhancing our sustainability Solapur Solar 10 17.74
dioxide from flue gases, reduces waste, promotes recycling, and efforts and reducing their costs. During this financial year we TOTAL Maharastra 5617 23336
opens new revenue streams in agriculture, construction, and have awarded contract for sale of 2.58 lakh MT of FGD gypsum Kawas Gas 656 630
from NTPC stations. Gandhar Gas 657 683
Rojmal Wind 50 102
Gujarat
Devbhumi (Subs) Wind 63 140
Patan (Subs) Wind 50 77
Dayapar Wind 50 19
62 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 63
STATE / UT Station Source Installed Gross Capacity (MW) GROSS GEN(MU) STATE / UT Station Source Installed Gross Capacity (MW) GROSS GEN(MU)
Kawas Solar 56 94.22 Patratu (Subsidiary) Coal
Jharkhand
Gandhar Solar 20 35.63 North Karanpura Coal 1320 5488
TOTAL Gujrat 1602 1781 Total Jharkhand 1320 5488
Korba Coal 2600 20517 ER TOTAL 17415 115232
Sipat Coal 2980 22359 Bongaigaon Coal 750 5058
Chhattisgarh Lara Coal 1600 11752 Assam GBP (Subs) Gas 291 1697
BHILAI PP II (Captive)(JV) Coal 74 418 Assam Kopili (Subs) Hydro 200 286
BHILAI PP III (JV) Coal 500 3876 Kopili Stage-II (Subs) Hydro 25 150
TOTAL Chhattisgarh 7754 58921 Kopili Khandong (Subs) Hydro 50 0
Vindhyachal Coal 4760 37387 TOTAL Assam 1316 7190
Gadarwara Coal 1600 9996 NEEPCO Agartala (Subs) Gas 135 640
Khargone Coal 1320 7686 Tripura Tripura GBP (Subs) Gas 101 661
Rajgarh Solar 50 70.20 TGBPP (Subs) Solar 5 6
Madhya Pradesh
Mandsaur Solar 250 364.2 TOTAL Tripura 241 1306
Singrauli Solar 15 20.53 Ranganadi HEP (Subs) Hydro 405 1177
Singrauli small Hydro Hydro 8 38.3 Arunachal pradesh Pare HEP (Subs) Hydro 110 449
Jhabua ( JV) Coal 600 3597.0 Kameng HEP (Subs) Hydro 600 2652
TOTAL Madhyapradesh 8603 59159 TOTAL Arunachal pradesh 1115 4278
WR TOTAL 23576 143198 Nagaland Doyang HEP (Subs) Hydro 75 165
Farakka Coal 2100 13784 Mizoram Turial HEP (Subs) Hydro 60 119
West Bengal Durgapur(Captive) (JV) Coal 120 895 NER TOTAL 2807 13059
Durgapur PP3(Captive) (JV) Coal 40 47 Ramagundam Coal 2600 16949
TOTAL West Bengal 2260 14726 Telangana Coal 1600 3428.2
Telangana
Kahalgaon Coal 2340 16555 Ramagundam Solar 10 10.57
Barh Coal 2640 14601 Ramagundam(F) Solar 100 196.1
Barauni Coal 500 3152 TOTAL Telangana 4310 20584
Bihar
Kanti Coal 390 2906 Simhadri Coal 2000 11639
BRBCL (Subsidiary) Coal 1000 6944 Andhra Pradesh Ananthapuram Solar 250 389.5
NPGCL Coal 1980 14412 Simhadri (F) Solar 25 51.6
TOTAL Bihar 8850 58570 TOTAL Andhra Pradesh 2275 12080
Talcher Kaniha Coal 3000 22625 Kayamkulam Naphtha 360 0.00
Talcher Thermal Coal Kerala Kasargod (Subs) solar 50 97.30
Darlipalli Coal 1600 12055 Kayamkulam (F) solar 92 216.97
Odisha
Talcher Solar 10 12.54 Total Kerala 502 314.27
Rourkela (Captive)(JV) Coal 120 605 Karnataka Kudgi Coal 2400 12092
Rourkela (Captive)(JV) Coal 250 1144 NTECL-Vallur (JV) Coal 1500 6623
Tamil Nadu
TOTAL Odisha 4980 36442 Ettayapuram Solar 230.0 495
A & N Islands Andaman & Nicobar Solar 5 6.09 Total Tamil Nadu 1730 7119
SR TOTAL 11217 52190
NTPC Group 74638 422215.9
64 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 65
Natural Capital
Overview cutting-edge technologies, and the enhancement of older units
for greater efficiency with minimal environmental impact. We
At NTPC, environmental risk management is a top priority,
continuously improve our environmental performance through
Management Approach
and we are committed to preserving our natural surroundings.
practical engineering solutions and strict adherence to regulatory
NNTTPPCC pprriioorriittiizzeess eennvviirroonnmmeennttaall ssuussttaaiinnaabbiilliittyy aass aa ccoorrnneerrssttoonnee ooff iittss lloonngg--tteerrmm ggrroowwtthh ssttrraatteeggyy.. OOuurr Our comprehensive Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) standards. NTPC stations1 are certified with ISO: 14001 for
studies are the cornerstone of our Environmental Management
robust environmental management systems and practices.
ccoommppaannyy ccoonnttiinnuuaallllyy iinnvveessttss iinn iimmpprroovviinngg oouurr ssyysstteemmss ttoo eexxcceeeedd gglloobbaall eennvviirroonnmmeennttaall ssttaannddaarrddss,, aaddhheerriinngg
Plans, implemented across all our stations. Our environmental
Moreover, we have established an environmental grievance
ttoo bbeesstt pprraaccttiicceess,, aanndd sshhoowwccaassiinngg rreessppoonnssiibbllee sstteewwaarrddsshhiipp.. TThhiiss ccoommmmiittmmeenntt iiss ddeeeeppllyy eemmbbeeddddeedd iinn oouurr
policy emphasizes the efficient use of natural resources,
redressal mechanism to ensure the prompt resolution of issues
ccoorree vvaalluuee ooff ffoosstteerriinngg ssuussttaaiinnaabbllee pprroodduuccttiioonn aanndd ccoonnssuummppttiioonn ooff nnaattuurraall rreessoouurrcceess.. waste reduction through recycling and reusing, the adoption of
and thorough documentation of all concerns and complaints.
Key Highlights Data Trends
3.85%
(Y-o-Y) Reduction in specific NO
x
emission
8.56%
(Y-o-Y) Increase in avoided GHG
emissions
10.74%
Mapping with SDGs
(Y-o-Y) Increase in energy savings
Material Topic (s) Water & Effluent Management2
1 MN+ [3] [4] [6] [8] [12] [16]
NTPC acknowledges the essential role of water as a resource successfully reduced the need for freshwater withdrawal over
Trees planted NGRBC Principle for life and remains committed to its sustainable management. time. However, the increasing integration of variable renewable
[2] [6] [9] Through vigilant monitoring, we aim to optimize water usage energy sources into the power grid is causing our thermal units
following the 3R principle: reduce, reuse, and recycle. Nearly all to operate at lower plant load factors (PLFs), leading to higher
our thermal power plants utilize closed-cycle cooling systems per-unit water consumption. The installation of wet flue gas
with cooling towers to minimize environmental impact. By desulfurization (FGD) systems across all stations also poses
adopting the latest technologies and maintaining regular upkeep, challenges in reducing water consumption. Despite these
we ensure minimal water loss primarily due to evaporation, challenges, our water conservation initiatives have enabled us to
drift, and blowdown. To further improve water efficiency, we maintain specific water consumption at our thermal units below
are increasing the cycles of concentration (COC) and reusing the prescribed norm of 3 liters/kWh.
high-TDS blowdown water in other processes. Additionally, we
have implemented zero liquid discharge (ZLD) across almost all Our stations draw water from a variety of sources, including rivers,
stations, with exception of few stations where interconnecting reservoirs, canals, and seawater for coastal plants. As most of
infrastructure is being installed. Our current water discharges, our stations are equipped with closed-loop systems and ZLD,
including treated effluents and runoff, adhere to established resulting in minimal water withdrawal and effluent discharge into
norms and conditions, ensuring no significant impact on water water bodies, bio-diversity and ecosystems are duly protected..
bodies or related habitats. In cases where non-ZLD plants are present, the discharge of
treated effluent into natural watercourses strictly complies with
Our efforts to enhance the reuse and recycling of effluents have regulatory standards.
1 List of certifications can be accessed from NTPC website.
2 GRI 303-3 and GRI 303-4
66 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 67
Reduce-Reuse-Recycle
As part of our ongoing commitment to sustainability, we rainwater harvesting systems at all our facilities. These systems
have successfully reduced our specific water consumption to help decrease our dependence on freshwater resources by
levels below the norms set by the MoEF&CC through a variety replenishing groundwater and storing surface water. During the
of water efficiency initiatives. Central to these efforts is our reporting period, we effectively collected and utilized rainwater at
Rainwater Harvesting policy, which involves constructing our plants to support operational needs.
Additionally, NTPC has implemented an Ash Water Recirculation Waste Management
System (AWRS) to efficiently use both decanted ash slurry water
We are committed to managing and disposing of all on-site waste
and Toe drain water recirculation system for reusing seepage
in an eco-friendly, socially responsible, and economically viable
water from ash dyke. We have also adopted Zero Liquid Discharge
manner. Our comprehensive approach encompasses waste
(ZLD) practices across our stations (with exception of few
collection, segregation, transportation, processing, recycling,
stations) using a cascaded water usage approach to optimize
and disposal of various waste types. Our primary focus is on
water quality for various applications.
optimizing resource usage while minimizing waste generation.
Efficient effluent management is achieved through our Liquid When disposal becomes inevitable, we strictly adhere to all rules
Waste Treatment Plant (LWTP), which treats liquid waste and regulatory obligations in managing hazardous and non-
from various plant sources. The treated effluent, meeting hazardous waste from our power plants, following the NTPC
Water Consumption3 specified standards, is used for operational needs such as coal Waste Management Guideline.
handling, ash handling, and service water, promoting resource
Our freshwater consumption accounts for the volume of water
conservation. Any surplus treated effluent not utilized in non-ZLD
extracted from natural sources, excluding the amount returned
plants is discharged responsibly, adhering to discharge standards
to the environment after being treated to meet safety and
and reinforcing our commitment to sustainable practices.
compliance standards. In the Financial Year 2023-24, we achieved
some reduction in specific water consumption compared to We have implemented Sewage Treatment Plants for sewage
Financial Year 2022-23. effluent treatment and reuse. Effluent quality is consistently
monitored, and the treated wastewater is utilized for horticulture
and other activities within the NTPC premises. In the reporting
year, 99.94% of generated wastewater was effectively recycled,
reducing the need for fresh water consumption.
3 GRI 303-5
68 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 69
Hazardous, Non-Hazardous, and Other Waste4 Waste type Disposal Methods6
Ferrous Scrap
Our operating facilities generate hazardous wastes, including
Disposed through E-Auction
used lubricating oil, transformer oil, and spent resins, which Non-Ferrous Scrap
are disposed of through authorized agencies following the Bio-degradable waste is composted/vermicomposted into manure,
Hazardous and Other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Municipal solid waste including plastic while non-biodegradable and plastic waste are managed through
local traders/collectors and also sent for co-processing.
Movement) Rules, 2016 and their subsequent amendments
Non-recyclable waste undergoes appropriate treatment and E-Waste Via authorized recyclers/dismantlers endorsed by CPCB/SPCB
disposal at a Treatment, Storage & Disposal Facility (TSDF)
as mandated by the HWM Rules 2016. Our operations are The successful execution of “Project PRADIP” has led to with coal. we have improved design and operational efficiency,
now free from Polychlorinated Biphenyl (PCBs), in compliance significant paper savings and has also improved decision-making, thereby reducing specific coal consumption. During the Financial
with the Basel Convention. We uphold strict adherence to this transparency, and efficiency. Additionally, we successfully Year 2023-24, NTPC utilized approximately 1.7 Lakh metric
international agreement, refraining from the import or export of enforced a ban on single-use plastic across all our facilities, tonnes of biomass pellets, underscoring our commitment to
hazardous waste or materials, further ensuring our commitment further enhancing our sustainability efforts. sustainability. The accompanying graph illustrates the trends in
to sustainability. specific coal and oil consumption performance parameters. We
~9 % (Y-o-Y) reduction in ~3 % (Y-o-Y) reduction in are dedicated to maximizing the efficient use of these resources.
Hazardous Waste Non Hazardous Waste
Waste type Disposal Methods5 Resource Efficiency and Material
Used Lube oil Management
Sold to registered recyclers
Used Transformer oil
Material Consumed7
Containers of hazardous wastes CPCB/SPCB-approved facilities
NTPC is committed to resource efficiency and regularly assesses
Used Batteries Sold to manufacturers under a buy-back policy
consumption intensity to prioritize sustainability. Our approach
Bio-Medical Waste Disposed through approved agencies authorized by CPCB/SPCB
includes measurement, monitoring, and conservation plans
Insulation Waste Disposed through approved agencies e.g. TSDF to enhance efficiency. In thermal power generation, the input
materials except water which are mainly fuels i.e. coal, biomass,
FO Sludge Disposed through approved agencies e.g. TSDF
and natural gas are fully utilized in the boiler, making recycling
Energy & Efficiency Management
not required.
At NTPC, energy conservation is a cornerstone of our sustainable
Hazardous & Non Hazardous Waste
consumption strategy, extending far beyond simple cost savings.
It is essential to our mission to preserve the nation’s energy
reserves and reduce the environmental impact of our operations.
Through various initiatives, we strive to optimize energy usage
and foster a more sustainable future. Incorporating larger units
and successfully increasing efficiency of older thermal fleets has
resulted in a significant decrease in coal consumption per unit.
To further strengthen our commitment, we are actively pursuing
For treatment of water to achieve desired quality, we utilize many
agro-residue co-firing, implementing an Energy and Efficiency
chemicals and the same is fully consumed in our operations.
Management System, and reducing auxiliary power consumption.
Also, we have implemented various measures to enhance power
These combined efforts contribute significantly to a substantial
cycle efficiency, leading to overall efficiency improvements and
reduction in our overall energy consumption. By prioritizing
significant fuel savings per unit of energy produced. By adopting
energy conservation and adopting sustainable practices, we are
larger units with higher steam parameters and co-firing biomass
actively working towards a more environmentally responsible
4 GRI 306-3
5 GRI 306-5 7 GRI 301-1 and energy-efficient future.
70 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 71
Energy Intensity8 Our Energy Conservation Highlights10
During the Financial Year 2023-24, the Group maintained a Net Energy Saving9
Energy Intensity of 9.97 MJ/kWh, which signifies enhanced
Through a range of initiatives, we consistently enhance the
operational and energy efficiency and reduced dependence
energy efficiency in our plants including our auxiliary power Energy Audits Auxiliary Power Consumption Savings
on fossil fuels. The accompanying graph illustrates the overall
consumption (APC). The trend of energy saving at NTPC plants
progress of total primary energy consumption and energy • Conducted mandatory energy • Installed grid-connected rooftop Solar PV systems
have been depicted below:
audits in 6 stations per BEE
intensity across the NTPC group. • Replaced inefficient BFP cartridges with high specific energy consumption
regulations
Energy Saving (TJ)
• Replaced tube mill liners
• Performed Auxiliary Power
Consumption Audits at all stations • Optimized Bottom Ash De-ashing process
• Installed energy-efficient ash slurry pumps
• Applied energy-efficient coatings on pump internals of cooling water and
other large pumps
Thermal Energy Savings
• Used BFP scoop for drum level control
• Repair of HP Heater Parting Plane • Replaced ceiling fans with BLDC fans
• Insulation of HPT & IPT Ceramic • Replaced old compressors with screw compressors
Pads
• Upgraded to energy-efficient motors
• High Pressure Jet Cleaning of
Condenser • Optimized the number of auxiliaries like mills, ARCW, CW pumps, and fans
during prolonged partial loading of units
Performance on PAT (Perform, Achieve, and Trade)
NTPC’s Achievements in PAT
• Overview : Part of the National Mission on • Cycle-III Success: Barh and Mouda stations
Enhanced Energy Efficiency (NMEEE), PAT surpassed their Net Heat Rate improvement
is a market-based mechanism designed targets.
to improve energy efficiency in energy-
intensive large industries. • Current ESCerts: NTPC holds a total of
2,28,725 ESCerts, including those from
• Mechanism : Enhances cost-effectiveness previous cycles.
by allowing the trading of Energy Savings
Certificates (ESCerts) achieved through • Future ESCerts: Verification for PAT cycles
improvements in Net Heat Rate IV and V is complete, with additional ESCerts
earned and awaiting notification.
10 GRI 302-4
8 GRI 302-3
9 GRI 302-1
72 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 73
Air (Non-GHG) Emissions Management11 systems are continually improved through renovation and
GHG Emission
modernization efforts.
NTPC is dedicated to mitigating air emissions by leveraging
We, at NTPC are continuously expanding the scope of GHG measurement and monitoring.
advanced technologies and monitoring systems, setting a To address sulfur dioxide emissions, NTPC has installed lime-
benchmark in the power sector for compliance with the Ministry based wet flue gas desulfurization (FGD) systems and dry
of Environment, Forests, and Climate Change’s (MoEF&CC) new sorbent injection (DSI) based FGD in 23 units, with ongoing
emission standards and NTPC’s Brighter Plan. To ensure real- implementation in 119 units. To reduce nitrogen oxide (NOx)
time monitoring of particulate matter, sulfur dioxide, and nitrogen emissions to below 450 mg/Nm3, various De-NOx techniques
oxides, Continuous Emission Monitoring Systems (CEMS) are and modifications have been applied in 49 units, with additional
installed across all operational units. Additionally, NTPC employs execution underway for 1 unit.
offline stack monitoring and online ambient air quality monitoring
Ozone-depleting substances (ODS) emissions are consistently
systems.
monitored, and mercury emissions are kept below the minimum
The company has equipped its stations with highly efficient detectable limit (MDL). Furthermore, NTPC has completely
Electrostatic Precipitators (ESPs) that achieve over 99.8% phased out the use of PCBs across all operations, underscoring
effectiveness in controlling particulate matter emissions. These its commitment to sustainability.
GHG Emissions – Scope 112 GHG Emissions – Scope 213
As India’s leading power sector organization, we recognize the At NTPC, we actively address our indirect emissions resulting
importance of monitoring our direct greenhouse gas (GHG) from electricity consumption across our facilities and offices.
emissions, which primarily result from fossil fuel consumption It also includes grid electricity consumption by a few of our
at our facilities. In line with our commitment to sustainability, gas & hydro plants during reserve shutdown. Our commitment
NTPC is actively working to reduce these emissions. While the to sustainability is reflected in the implementation of robust
total Scope 1 emissions have increased due to the addition of mechanisms to effectively track and monitor these emissions.
thermal capacity, the specific Scope 1 emissions and overall Additionally, we continuously strive to reduce our indirect
energy intensity have decreased over the years. emission footprint through various initiatives and efforts..
11 GRI 305-6, GRI 305-7
*Standalone
12 GRI 305-4, 13 GRI 305-4
74 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 75
GHG emissions – Scope 314 Carbon Offset projects (Under regulatory &
Compliance market)
We have strategically embraced a long-term vision to
mitigate our scope 3 GHG footprint, recognizing the potential to
NTPC is a pioneer in proactively addressing climate change and of 6,702 MW, are under registration with the Global Carbon
transform climate challenges into advantageous prospects. Our
recognizes the significant role of carbon offsets. We have initiated Council (GCC), potentially generating 70,99,887 ACCs.
comprehensive approach entails proactive collaboration with
several Carbon Credit Projects in the power sector. Currently,
our scope 3 stakeholders, fostering mutual engagement and NTPC is implementing Carbon Capture & Utilization projects
NTPC has 8 (108 MW) renewable energy (RE) projects registered
harnessing collective efforts towards sustainability goals. The (20 TPD- NTPC Vindhyachal & 25 TPD- NTPC Lara) and Green
under the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM), with 3 (35 MW)
decrease in total emissions is on account of emissions decreased Hydrogen Mobility Projects (Leh - 80 kg/day & Greater Noida -
of these through the CDM Programme of Activities (PoA) route.
due to coal imports. 260 kg/day) which fall under activities finalized under Article 6.2
Additionally, we have 4 (610 MW) RE projects registered under
mechanism of Paris Agreement. Host country approval for above
the Verra-Verified Carbon Standard (VCS). Also, the registration
projects is being explored from MOEF&CC.
activity of Waste to Energy plant at Varanasi is under progress
with Verified Carbon Standard (VCS).
Prior Consideration notification under Article 6.4 of Paris
Agreement crediting mechanism for the 75 nos. (21,118 MW
Registration work is under progress for 200 MW capacity of
Climate Change Mitigation 250 MW Anantpur solar Power project under GCC Program. – RE, 2,600 TPD- WTE, 45 TPD- Carbon Capture & 340 KPD
Green Hydrogen) of projects (already commissioned projects
Also, the registration activity of 800 MW Koldam Hydro Power
As India’s leading power generator, we recognize the critical 1 million saplings annually. To date, we have successfully planted
and upcoming projects) of NTPC and its subsidiaries have been
Station is under progress with International Carbon Registry
importance of sustainable practices in addressing the global over 39 million trees.
submitted to UNFCCC secretariat and MoEF&CC.
(ICR). Moreover, 32 other RE projects, with a combined capacity
challenge of climate change. We embrace our ethical responsibility
to support the country’s efforts in reducing greenhouse gas (GHG)
emissions and mitigating the adverse impacts of climate change.
It is deeply embedded in our core values and our recognition of
the vital role we play in shaping a sustainable future.
By embracing sustainability as a guiding principle, we aim to
be at the forefront of India’s transition towards a low-carbon
economy, playing a crucial role in securing a sustainable future
for generations to come.
We at NTPC are taking various measures to mitigate GHG
emissions and climate change. These measures include
diversifying our operation into green energy generation such
as Renewable Energy, Nuclear Energy, Green Hydrogen, and
Avoided Emissions15
Biofuels.
In addition to this, we are also cognizant of the role of Nature-
based removals and are committed to building carbon sinks
through tree plantations.
Carbon Sink Development
Our afforestation initiatives in India serve a dual purpose:
enhancing the country’s green cover and oxygen supply, while
also acting as 'sinks' for pollutants emitted by our stations and
other sources. Since 2016, we have aimed to plant at least
14 GRI 305-4, 15 GRI 305-5
76 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 77
Biodiversity Conservation
At NTPC, we recognize that sustainable growth and environmental Policy, initially established in 2018 and updated in 2022, guides
Species IUCN Red List Location
protection are intrinsically linked. We firmly believe that achieving our initiatives to conserve, restore, and enhance biodiversity.
our economic goals requires a commitment to ecological As an active participant in the Indian Business and Biodiversity
responsibility. Our aim is to make a positive impact on nature Initiative, we take immense pride in promoting environmental Gangetic Dolphin (Platanista
Endangered Kahalgaon
gangetica)
by giving back more than we take, dedicating sincere efforts to stewardship and demonstrating our dedication to protecting the
preservation and restoration of ecology. Our NTPC Biodiversity planet’s biodiversity
Our Biodiversity Strategy
Cheer Pheasant (Catreus wallichii) Vulnerable Koldam
We are implementing following activities across NTPC units:
 Mapping of Biodiversity Interfaces including Assessment of biodiversity risks and opportunities.
 Preparation and Implementation of Biodiversity Conservation/ Management Plan for Protected Areas/ Areas of High Bio-Diversity Values
including issues related to Man Animal conflicts (if applicable);
Elephant (Elephas maximus) Endangered North Karanpura
 Enrichment of greenbelt for Biodiversity;
 Enhancing Awareness and Capacity Building on biodiversity (Workshops & Training Programmes, Internal & External Seminars, Leaflets,
Pamphlets, Posters, Video Clips, Quizzes and competitions, Campaigns and Awards etc.);
 Considering the impacts of business decisions on biodiversity and inclusion of the applicable biodiversity aspects in the environment
management systems; Great Indian Bustard (Ardeotis
Critically endangered Solapur
nigriceps)
 Setting objectives and targets for biodiversity management;
 Implementation of Monitoring and Reporting System;
 Engaging in policy advocacy and dialogue with local communities, organisations, regulatory agencies and research institutes of national/
international repute, government, NGOs and academia;
Olive Ridley Turtle
 Designating individuals within the organization as biodiversity champion; (Lepidochelys olivacea) Vulnerable Simhadri
 Participation in International and National Conferences/ Workshops/ Seminars/ Symposium on Biodiversity Conservation & Management.
NTPC has ensured that none of its thermal project sites are located within protected areas or near the areas of high biodiversity Snow Trout Fishes
Vulnerable Vishnugad Pipalkoti
outside the protected areas, thereby avoiding any potential impact on IUCN Red List species or national conservation list species. (Schizothorax richardsonii)
We actively engage in multiple biodiversity conservation projects, as outlined in the table below16
Plant
Species IUCN Red List Location
Wildlife
Lagerstroemia minuticarpa Endangered Pare, Arunachal Pradesh
Sloth bear (Melursus ursinus) Vulnerable Raigarh
Habitats Type Location
Ecopark Urban Environment Dadri
Ecopark Urban Environment Badarpur
Biodiversity conservation Terrestrial & Riverine ecosystem Khargone
Black Buck (Antilope cervicapra) Least Concern Meja
Biodiversity conservation Terrestrial ecosystems Talaipalli
Marshlands and Bird Sanctuary Wet zones Unchahar
16 GRI 304-4
78 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 79
All thermal power plants developed by NTPC were strategically • Bongaigaon Thermal Power Station, situated in Kokrajhar In addition, NTPC has also undertaken the following activities for
(Assam), is located outside the Chakrasila Wildlife Sanctuary.
located beyond eco-sensitive zones, including protected areas the protection of habitats at other sites.
However, due to the recent declaration of the sanctuary’s
and regions with significant biodiversity, ensuring minimal
eco- sensitive zone by the State Government in 2021, certain
environmental impact, and safeguarding critical habitats. portions of the project now fall within the eco-sensitive area.
The Wildlife clearance for these areas is currently being 01 06
Wildlife conservation and monitoring The Wildlife Conservation Plan for the
However, in the case of the following power projects, wildlife processed.
plan for the protection of Great Indian conservation of Black Buck at Meja
sanctuaries were declared after the project was accorded • Koldam HEPP- The submergence area overlaps with a portion
Bustard (GIB) at Maldhok Sanctuary STPP has been prepared in consultation
Environmental Clearance (EC) or constructed: of the Majathal Wildlife Sanctuary, specifically affecting the
habitat of the vulnerable Cheer Pheasant (Catreus wallichii) Solapur, Maharashtra with the UP State Forest Department and
• Kahalgaon Super Thermal Power Station, located in listed on the IUCN Red List. This submergence area accounts implemented. A total Budget of ₹ ` 2.92
Bhagalpur (Bihar)- the stretch of Ganga river adjacent to plant for approximately 4% of the total area of the sanctuary,
was declared as Vikramshila Gangetic Dolphin Sanctuary. amounting to 124.054 Ha.17 All necessary approvals from Crore so far has been spent for various
However, the plant is situated outside the sanctuary and its the State Forest Department and the Ministry of Environment, Wildlife Conservation Plan for Lara STPP 02 conservation activities under this plan.
eco-sensitive zone, except for the water intake structure. Forest, and Climate Change (MoEF&CC) have been successfully
for Conservation of Sloth Bear for MGR
acquired for the project18.
• Feroz Gandhi Unchahar Thermal Power Station in Rae Bareli,
Rail Corridor (35.413ha) from Otarliya to
Uttar Pradesh-Samaspur Bird Sanctuary was established
The establishment and functioning of power plants and related NTPC Lara. The total amount of ₹ ` 2.53
Nearby after plant construction. However, all its components
are situated outside the sanctuary and its eco- sensitive zone. infrastructure do not have any discernible effects, whether direct Crore has been spent under this plan. 07
or indirect, on biodiversity. Conservation of Olive Ridley Sea Turtles
along the coast of Andhra Pradesh in
collaboration with AP Forest Department
Habitats protected or restored19 03
Mapping of Biodiversity Interfaces, is being done. NTPC Simhadri has signed
NTPC’s dedication to environmental stewardship is demonstrated 24 ha of Mangrove ` 7.78 Cr of expenditure Including Assessment & Inventorisation a five-year agreement with the Andhra
through its significant financial contributions and active afforestation in on Wildlife conservation and of Biodiversity at Vindhayachal Super Pradesh Forest Department to partner in
collaborations for conservation initiatives. NTECL land afforestation Thermal Power Station, is completed. conservation efforts in the nine coastal
Till date, ` 6.5 lakhs have been spent districts of Andhra Pradesh, covering
Moreover, NTPC collaborates with the State Forest Departments on sustainable projects such as the Compensatory Afforestation Plan,
towards this study. 732 km out of the total 972 km of Andhra
Catchment Area Treatment Plan etc. These initiatives aim to restore and enhance wildlife habitats, underscoring NTPC’s commitment
Pradesh’s coastline. An amount of ₹` 4.6
to biodiversity and ecological balance
Crore has been spent till date.
NTPC’s substantial investments in sustainability initiatives highlight its dedication to environmental and social responsibility, 04
Wildlife Conservation Plan for Dulanga
showcasing a holistic approach to preserving the natural environment.
Coal Mine Project, Sundargargh, Odisha,
is being implemented with Odisha State
Forest Department. The total expenditure
Biodiversity of Offset Habitats
of ₹` 4.49 Crore has been deposited with
the state government for carrying out the Since NTPC’s thermal project sites are not situated within
biodiversity conservation at the Dulanga protected areas, no offset habitats were developed, making
Coal mine area. any comparison inapplicable. However, the hydropower project
at Kol Dam involved the creation of an offset habitat through
collaboration with the State Forest Department.
05
Afforestation
Studies on Dolphin Biodiversity
monitoring in Vikramshila Gangetic NTPC has proactively engaged in extensive afforestation
Dolphin Sanctuary for preparation of endeavors to combat the impact of greenhouse gases, bolstering
conservation plan India’s green cover and oxygen reserves while serving as a
vital carbon sink for emissions stemming from power stations
and other origins. NTPC has successfully planted more than
17 GRI 304-1
18 GRI 304-2
80 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 81
39 million trees since its inception. Complementing these particulates, reduce noise, act as carbon sinks, lower
surrounding temperatures, and increase atmospheric oxygen
initiatives, NTPC has set up nurseries within its facilities and
content.
townships to facilitate the cultivation of seeds and seedlings,
• Afforestation Initiatives: Each year, NTPC undertakes large-
supporting internal plantation and horticulture operations. This
scale afforestation efforts, planting approximately 1 million
collaborative effort with State Forest Departments, formalized
trees annually.
through MOUs, effectively delineates crucial aspects such as the
• Distribution of Fruit-Bearing Trees: NTPC provides local
plantation timeline, maintenance duration, funding arrangements,
farmers and township residents with free saplings of fruit-
and survival targets. bearing, flowering, and vegetable plants, encouraging
individual landholders to engage in planting. Additionally, NTPC
NTPC has implemented Guidelines for Afforestation serving as
promotes tree planting among its employees and their families
the basis for afforestation across its projects. The plantation on various occasions.
activities can be categorized into the following:
These initiatives reflect NTPC’s commitment to enhancing
• Development of Green Belts Around Plants: NTPC has environmental quality and promoting sustainable practices
established green belts around all operational stations and
within and beyond its operational areas.
is developing them at new sites. These green belts capture
Green Credit Programme
NTPC is actively participating in GoI’s Green Credit Programme. We are working to enhance India’s forest
and tree cover on degraded forest lands through Forest departments.
All NTPC stations are certified for ISO 14001 which are being
renewed regularly. They also have dedicated environmental cells.
Regular inspections, audits, and compliance assessments of the
Environment Management Systems are conducted by regulatory
agencies, NGOs, and ISO certification bodies, both internally and
externally. NTPC ensures full adherence to environmental laws
and regulations mandated by statutory agencies, showcasing its
unwavering commitment to achieving 100% compliance.
The company promptly responds to directives from regulators
by implementing feasible engineering solutions within specified
timelines. To meet stringent environmental standards, NTPC
undertakes renovation and modernization (R&M) of pollution
control technologies in older operating units, ensuring compliance
with all legal requirements through R&M activities.
Environment Training
We conduct capacity-building programs on environmental
subjects for various stakeholders, including employees, the
contract workforce, and communities, aiming to enhance
knowledge and awareness. These programs cover topics such as
waste management, water conservation, biodiversity protection,
and more.
82 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 83
Human Capital
Overview
Management Approach At NTPC, our success is propelled by our highly skilled and dedicated professionals who serve as the driving force. We prioritize the
attraction, nurturing, and retention of top talent, which has resulted in an exceptionally low attrition rate. Our HR vision cultivates a
OOuurr wwoorrkkffoorrccee iiss tthhee ffoouunnddaattiioonn ooff oouurr oorrggaanniissaattiioonn,, oouurr mmoosstt vvaalluuaabbllee aasssseett.. WWee pprriioorriittiizzee tthheeiirr ggrroowwtthh,, wweellll-- culture where employees form a closely-knit family of outstanding professionals, collectively propelling NTPC towards its aspiration
bbeeiinngg,, aanndd sskkiillll ddeevveellooppmmeenntt,, ccoonnssiiddeerriinngg tthheemm eesssseennttiiaall ttoo oouurr ssuucccceessss.. BByy ffoosstteerriinngg aa ppoossiittiivvee wwoorrkk ccuullttuurree of becoming a learning organization. Through the empowerment of our workforce, we forge a sustainable future where NTPC delivers
clean and reliable power while minimizing environmental impact. Rooted in a people-centric approach, our HR strategy is built on four
aanndd pprriioorriittiizziinngg eemmppllooyyeeee ccaarreeeerr aaddvvaanncceemmeenntt aanndd oovveerraallll hheeaalltthh,, wwee hhaavvee aacchhiieevveedd rreemmaarrkkaabbllee lleevveellss ooff
pillars:
ssaattiissffaaccttiioonn.. TThhiiss ddeeddiiccaattiioonn hhaass pprrooppeelllleedd oouurr ggrroowwtthh aanndd ccoonnttrriibbuutteedd ssiiggnniifificcaannttllyy ttoo oouurr aacchhiieevveemmeennttss..
Key Highlights Data Trends
42 hrs/employee
Systems Competence Commitment Culture
of Learning Opportunities
Building Building Building Building
4.42 million
man-hours of Safety Training
`6592.03 Cr
Our Dynamic Workforce1
spent on Employee Benefits Material Topic (s)
Mapping with SDGs Our commitment to human capital extends beyond effective
[1] [2] [7] [10] [15]
management to create a supportive and inclusive work environment that
` 54.82* Cr empowers our workforce. Evaluating employee productivity and financial
NGRBC Principles
metrics like sales per employee and value added per employee provide
[3] [5] [4] [6] [8]
spent on Training & Development
insights into workforce efficiency. We use the Man-MW ratio to measure
employee productivity and optimize manpower planning. In Financial
Year 2023-24, the ratio stands at 0.29 for the NTPC group.
Our workforce is a vibrant mix of seasoned professionals and emerging
talents, fostering a harmonious blend of perspectives, skills, and
experiences. With representation from across India, our diverse workforce
empowers us to leverage a multitude of strengths and viewpoints. This
diversity serves as a catalyst for our innovation, market agility, and overall
organizational excellence.
Through our commitment to nurturing a supportive work culture, we
enable our employees to thrive, resulting in reduced turnover and heightened job satisfaction. We have implemented a dynamic
Performance Management System (PMS) to proactively recognize and reward employee contributions to our organization’s growth.
The “System of Weekly Planner – A Tool for Continuous Assessment and Feedback” was introduced in PMS in the year 2020 to
promote a culture of planning, continuous assessment and feedback, reduce recency effect, bring transparency and objectivity in the
system by making it data driven and provide timely support by Managers to their subordinates to bridge the gap between actual and
desired level of performance. Based on the feedback/suggestions received after the implementation of the Weekly Planner System,
it was decided to introduce the system of Monthly Assessment by Reporting Officers in the Year 2021. In this system, the Reporting
1 GRI 404-3 ** NTPC Group
* NTPC Standalone
84 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 85
Officers (ROs) are required to give Monthly Rating against each subordinate every month on a scale of 1 to 10. This system provides healthy work-life balance, and providing long-term support. From address various aspects of our employees’ lives. Additionally,
a structured framework for assessing employee performance and delivering constructive feedback. Through the PMS, we have paid childcare leave to extensive medical coverage, education we provide provisions for sabbatical periods of up to five years,
established a mechanism for acknowledging and rewarding employees based on their actual contributions. assistance, housing support, social security benefits, and post- ensuring job security upon return.
retirement medical care, our benefits package is designed to
Demonstrating our commitment to shared parental retention. In addition to complying with regulatory mandates
responsibilities, we provide parental leave to all employees, like maternity leave, we also provide additional facilities like paid
irrespective of gender. This inclusive policy not only promotes childcare leave of two years to female employees as well as
gender equality but also empowers employees in their journey single male employees and special childcare leave for adoption/
“
of parenthood, resulting in a 100% rate of return to work and surrogacy.
Fostering Equality, Embracing Diversity, and
Promoting Inclusion2 “
Equal Renumeration
At NTPC, we are deeply committed to fostering an inclusive work Major Employee Benefits
environment that celebrates and respects diversity in all its forms. for all employees
We greatly value individuals from diverse cultures, backgrounds,
Medical Separation/ Facilities Contribution Loans and
and orientations, creating a workplace atmosphere that is both
1 2 3 4 5
Treatment Insurance of Higher Scheme for Advances
welcoming and equitable. Upholding our dedication to diversity
Benefits Studies Post-Retirement
and inclusion requires ongoing efforts, including initiatives
Share of Female Employees in the workforce** Medical
such as diverse recruitment and training programs designed to
Facilities
address unconscious bias.
We prioritize open communication, mutual respect, and prompt
resolution of any issues or concerns that may arise. Our objective is
to ensure employee diversity, prevent discrimination, and promote In the reporting year, we invested `6592.03 Crores in our comprehensive employee benefits program, reaffirming our commitment to
equal treatment, thereby nurturing a strong organizational culture supporting our workforce.
that acknowledges and embraces the individuality of each and
In order to have an integrated approach encompassing various aspects of health and wellness including physical, mental, emotional,
every employee.
social, financial, and environmental well-being, a comprehensive policy - NTPC Health & Wellness Policy – “AHWAHAN” (All-inclusive
Providing Best Employee Benefits3 Health & Wellness Approach for Happy & Aspirational NTPCians) - covering various aspects of health and wellbeing including a
structural framework for effective functioning of the scheme has been rolled out in the year 2023-24.
NTPC offers a comprehensive array of benefits to its full-time
employees, aimed at promoting employee well-being, fostering a
2 GRI 406-1
3 GRI 401-2
86 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 87
Employee Benefits Commitments
Through our PRMS (Post-Retirement Medical Facilities) Scheme, are provided. During the reporting period, 4 cases of sexual harassment were reported and resolved with only one pending case as of
retired employees and their spouses receive access to medical now.
We are deeply committed to prioritizing the well-being and financial
facilities in company hospitals or empaneled hospitals. As
security of our employees through a robust compensation and
Each NTPC project has its own Grievance Redressal Mechanism to address employee grievances promptly. We use various forums,
per the DPE (Department of Public Enterprises) guidelines, the
benefits program.
such as communication meetings and organizational climate surveys, to capture and address these concerns. NTPC complies with
company contributes up to 30% of Basic Pay plus DA (Dearness
statutory and regulatory requirements concerning payment of wages and benefits. We ensure that employees’ rights are not violated
At NTPC, we offer a post-employment benefit plan with fixed Allowance) as superannuation benefits towards Provident Fund
and provide statutory benefits like Provident Fund and medical facilities.
contributions to the provident fund. These contributions are (PF), Gratuity, Post-Retirement Medical Benefits, and Pension.
meticulously invested in permitted securities by a separate Employees contribute 12% of Basic Pay plus DA towards PF
trust, with related expenses duly recorded in our profit or loss as per the EPF (Employees’ Provident Funds) Act, 1% of Basic
statement. NTPC ensures adherence to fixed contributions Pay plus DA towards the company’s Pension Scheme, and the
and minimum returns stipulated by the Government of India. PRMS Membership Fee Amount as per the PRMS Scheme of the
Additionally, we manage separate trusts for gratuity and pension company.
schemes, providing essential retirement benefits and financial
stability to our employees. Sr. Contractual
Benefits
No Workers
Temporary Minimum Wages as per
1 Y
Sr. Regular Employees statutory provisions
Benefits
No Employess (Fixed-Term 90.76 % males 9.24 % females in new hires
Benefits of PF, Pension and Insurance
Employees) 2 Y
as per statutory provisions
Provident Fund
1 Y Y
Benefit 3 Bonus as per statutory provisions Y
Promoting Human Rights Awareness Enhancing Security Measures8
2 Gratuity Y N
4 Paid Leaves as per statutory provisions Y and Education
3 Pension Benefit Y N
NTPC places utmost importance on workplace security and
Medical and Accidental Insurance
Post Retirement 5 Y All employees and contractors are sensitized on Human Right
4 Y N Coverage as per statutory provisions maintains a safe working environment across all its station.
Medical Scheme
related topics through structured training programmes. We
To ensure personnel and asset security, NTPC deploys Central
5 Leave Y Y Additional Social Security Assistance prioritize transparency
6 Y Industrial Security Force (CISF) at all its units, in compliance
for accident (by NTPC)
6 Insurance Coverage Y Y and address human
with the Ministry of Home Affairs regulations. They are provided
7 Free Annual Medical Check-up Y rights issues for external
7 Medical Facilities Y Y training on Human rights in their induction training by the
stakeholders, including
concerned govt. department.
Project Affected Families
Enhancing Employee-Management There is no operational entity where manpower and suppliers face
(PAF), through consultation
In addition, NTPC also collaborates with ex-servicemen
Collaboration and Engagement4 risk related to the right to freedom of association and collective and participation. Our
security agencies in non-core areas such as project townships,
bargaining, child labour and forced or compulsory labor.6
policies specifically
Our commitment to human rights, individual dignity, and headquarters, and offices. These agencies adhere to the norms
mention provisions for marginalized groups, ensuring
professional conduct is crucial to our operations. Our adherence To ensure smooth transitions during significant operational established by the Directorate General of Resettlement, under the
comprehensive community development. We have established
to international standards and guidelines, such as the United changes like location transfers, terminations, or resignations, a Ministry of Defence. These security personnel undergo rigorous
institutional mechanisms for grievance redressal, demonstrating
Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the 10 minimum notice period ranging from 4 to 12 weeks is required.7 training and refresher courses provided by the Government of
our commitment to resolving stakeholder concerns in a timely
(UN) Global Compact Principles, and the International Labor India, encompassing security systems and human rights aspects.
Creating a safe workplace, particularly for women, is crucial and fair manner. To safeguard human rights, all significant
Organization Core Conventions, serves as a foundation for ethical
for maintaining a secure and inclusive culture. We establish investment agreements and contracts include clauses that To enhance security measures, NTPC is upgrading surveillance
business practices. Respecting the rights of employees, including
Internal Complaints Committees at operational locations to minimize the risk of violations. We conduct regular monitoring to systems at all projects and stations by installing state-of-the-
their freedom of association, is essential to fostering a positive
handle complaints of sexual harassment, promoting a proactive ensure compliance with regulations and internal policies. During art security systems. The introduction of the Contract Labor
work environment. NTPC recognizes the freedom of workmen
approach to addressing and preventing such issues. These the reporting year, no complaints regarding human rights issues Information Management System (CLIMS), a biometric labour
(non-executive) employees to associate themselves with various
committees are reconstituted every three years, and resolutions such as child or forced labor at the workplace were reported. attendance system, improves security and facilitates the
unions, facilitating collective bargaining agreements.5
4 GRI 402-1 6 GRI 408-1, GRI 409-1 8 GRI 410-1
5 GRI 407-1 7 GRI 402-1
88 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 89
with organisations like the strengthens our human capital but also boosts employee
ISHA Foundation and Art satisfaction, resulting in enhanced performance. We extend
of Living promote holistic our support to employees nearing retirement by providing skill
development. Our objective development opportunities and facilitating a seamless transition
is to inspire excellence from work to retirement. This steadfast commitment to valuing
in employees and their and supporting our employees throughout their career journey
families, both professionally remains unwavering.
and personally.
Enhancing Employee Development: Training
and Skill-Building Initiatives
Learning and development are paramount to us, and we boast
a robust training infrastructure that encompasses various
facilities, including the Power Management Institute (PMI), seven
Regional Learning Institutes (RLIs), a Safety Academy, Employee
Development Centers (EDCs), and Simulator training facilities. Our
dedicated Learning and Development (L&D) team concentrates
on technology, business acumen, and leadership skills to equip
employees for future challenges. The PMI offers a contemporary
monitoring and execution of labour payments and benefits. This Implementation of actions based on these deliverables is carried learning environment conducive to skill enhancement.
initiative complements the upgrades in surveillance systems at out at each station.
Our Executive Trainee (ET) program delivers comprehensive
all projects/stations.
Nurturing Human Capital: Empowering
training through a blend of on-the-job experience, simulator
Prioritizing People over PLF Our Talent sessions, and skills modules. We conduct multiple ET batches Hours per employee of learning Opportunities
regularly, supplemented by structured interventions such as the
At NTPC, human resources policies are centered around Our commitment to employee growth is demonstrated through
Foundation Course, Enhancing Managerial Competence (EMC),
prioritizing the welfare of employees, guided by the principle holistic development, aligning with emerging business trends,
and Advanced Management Program (AMP). Prioritizing safety,
of ‘People before PLF (Plant Load Factor)’. NTPC management and fostering a culture of continuous learning. With “Learning at Skill Upgradation Initiatives
we provide extensive training to both employees and contract
maintains multiple levels of contact with employees through the Speed of Business,” our agile initiatives empower employees
workers, offering certificate courses across the organization. NTPC employs three primary types of training interventions:
whom they seek feedback to excel.
Moreover, the NTPC School of Business (NSB), operating under
and suggestions. Surveys
Planned Interventions
(internal/external) are In Financial Year 2023-24, the NTPC Education and Research Society (NEARS), delivers
considered to be an we invested ` 54.82 crore AICTE-approved management programs with academic support These in-house training programs are designed according to
important source of in training (on standalone from IIM Ahmedabad. a standardized course template. They are executed with the
employee feedback in basis), showcasing aim of enhancing employee competencies on a grade/level/
Through our unwavering commitment to learning and training,
NTPC. our dedication to category-wise basis. The focus is on improving specific skill sets
we aim to equip our employees with the necessary skills to excel
comprehensive learning and knowledge areas as identified by the organization. Planned
and contribute effectively to the growth and sustainability of our
These surveys empower opportunities. Interventions provide a structured approach to skill development,
organization.
employees to contribute insights for enhancing various systems
ensuring employees are equipped with the necessary capabilities.
within the organization. NTPC acknowledges the evolving needs We utilize platforms like
Empowering Talent These trainings include Foundation Course, Enhancing Managerial
of its workforce, striving to foster an environment conducive to NTPC Power Management
Competence, Advanced Mangement Program, LEAD Program,
employee well-being and productivity. Institute (PMI), Apex Learning and Development (L&D) Centre, 7 We prioritize continuous skill development for our employees,
10X Leadership Program, Executive Trainees Program
Regional Learning Institutes (RLIs), and Employee Development empowering them to excel and achieve our strategic objectives.
(onboarding) etc
In addition to satisfaction surveys, NTPC Corporate Safety Centers (EDCs) to create an effective learning grid. We prioritize Our investment in enhancing their capabilities not only
conducts separate safety perception surveys among both international training and partner with renowned institutions
employees and agency workers to derive future strategies for like Harvard and Wharton Business School. Collaborations
90 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 91
Need-based Programmes Counseling Offering guidance and counseling services to help
employees plan for their post-employment life. 37 of our
This type of training is meticulously crafted based on identified
thermal power
developmental needs for specific employees. The programme's Retirement Workshops Conducting workshops that cover
design and content are tailored to address the exact requirements financial planning, health management, and lifestyle adjustments stations were
indicated in the Training Needs Form. Need-based Programme for retirees.
incident free in
are finely tuned to bridge skill gaps and align employee
Outplacement Services Providing services to help superannuated FY 2023-24
growth with organizational objectives. These trainings include
employees find new employment opportunities if found suitable.
Competency Development Programme, SAMARTH Programme
(Role Felicitation), Gender Sensitivity, Women Leadership, Safety
By providing a comprehensive suite of transition assistance We are proud to have received numerous prestigious awards and
Certification, BOE Certification etc
programs, NTPC ensures that its employees are well-prepared accolades for our outstanding safety performance. Eighteen of
for retirement or any career transitions. The training enables our stations were honoured with the International Safety Award
Emerging Technology Programmes
employees to manage their career endings effectively and 2024 by the British Safety Council, with Sipat and Vindhyachal
These interventions encompass external or in-house training continue to lead fulfilling lives post-employment. stations recognized in distinction category.
programmes that aren't part of Planned Interventions or
investment decisions, and examine post-superannuation Workplace Wellness and Safety9 Four NTPC stations received Safety Innovation Award 2023 from
Need-based programmes. These interventions target specific
benefits. This financial readiness helps employees manage their SQF, Institution of Engineers, India. Additionally, NTPC Khargone
competencies deemed vital by the organization. The focus is NTPC prioritizes the safety, health, and well-being of its employees
future financial challenges. was awarded with SURAKSHA PURASKAR NSCI Safety Awards
on addressing particular areas of improvement to meet current and contractors as a core value that guides all operations. We
2023: (Manufacturing Sector) by National Safety Council of
or future business challenges effectively. These trainings Health Preparedness Emphasis is placed on taking up challenges have implemented a comprehensive set of procedures, safety
India and 10th FICCI Safety Systems Excellence Award in 2023
include Energy Trainsition programmes namely Carbon Trading related to health post-retirement. Programmes may include rules, and internationally recognized safety management
(Platinum category) for exceptional performance in occupational
Certification, Energy Storage, Pump Storage, Wind Energy, health awareness workshops and wellness initiatives. systems across all our plants and locations. Adherence to these
safety and health. Talcher Thermal has been honored with
Offshore wind , Future Skills Certification Programs,Virtual measures is mandatory for all employees and contractors, aiming
prestigious Golden Peacock Award for excellence in occupational
Continuous Learning and Skill Development
Reality, Augmented Reality etc for a workplace with zero incidents.
Health and Safety in power sectorfor the year 2024.
Transition assistance programmes Certification Programmes NTPC promotes continuous
upgradation of competencies through certification schemes.
Transition assistance programmes are essential for facilitating
Examples include the Qualified Project Management Professional
continued employability and managing career endings resulting
certification by the International Project Management Association
from retirement of employment. NTPC has a robust framework to
(IPMA) through its Indian affiliate, Project Management
support its employees during these transitions.
Association (PMA).
Financial and Health Preparedness
Higher Qualification Incentives The NTPC Incentive Scheme
Planned Interventions NTPC emphasizes the importance of encourages employees to acquire higher or additional
financial planning for retirement. Programmes are designed qualifications. This is facilitated through part-time or
to help employees analyze investment scenarios, make sound correspondence courses, enhancing employees’ professional
competence.
Higher Studies and Professional Development
Company Sponsorship for Higher Studies NTPC sponsors
various higher study programs, including IPMA Certification,
Energy Auditors Course, Certification for Project Management
Professionals, Management Programmes, and Nuclear
Operations Courses.
Grant of Study Leave and Sabbatical Scheme Employees are
rovided with study leave for higher studies and sabbaticals for
self-development pursuits like training or higher education.
9 GRI 403-1
92 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 93
To ensure the well-being of our workforce, we have established guidance, instructions, policies, participative forums, checklists, Mitigating Work-Related Hazards: Prioritizing actions and enhancements are generated. Adhering to the
a robust management system that covers all aspects of safety statutory documents, and procedures to promote safe practices Employee Safety NTPC Safety Manual 2015 guidelines, a hierarchy of controls
and compliance with legal, regulatory, and safety requirements. in the workplace, including the operation of equipment, machinery, is followed to determine appropriate corrective measures. The
NTPC has developed centralized Hazard Identification, Risk
Our safety framework and comprehensive safety manual provide chemicals, and tools. knowledge gained from incidents is integrated into the ongoing
Assessment, and Control (HIRAC) documents for its stations.
improvement of the occupational health and safety management
Station-specific HIRAC documents address site-specific risks
system.
and establish tailored control procedures. Capacity building and
training programs ensure competency. Historical accident and
incident data are collected to enhance hazard identification.
Promoting a Culture of Safety and Worker
Participation
Workers at NTPC have processes to report work-related hazards,
encouraging reporting and protecting against reprisals. NTPC
has policies and processes for workers to remove themselves
from potentially harmful work situations. Clear guidelines and
procedures protect workers from reprisals.
Thorough Investigation and Continuous
Enhancement
NTPC emphasizes a thorough investigation process for work-
related incidents, analysing incidents, identifying hazards, and
assessing risks. Valuable recommendations for corrective
We regularly assess the safety of our operations through internal the systems. Suggestions from these drills are reviewed and SAP Integrated Safety Framework
and external safety audits. Internal safety audits are conducted implemented. The NTPC Disaster Management Cell formulates
annually by a team of Safety Officers, while external audits policies and action plans, collaborating with regional offices and
are carried out by reputable organisations as per statutory stations.
requirements. We also conduct special audits to assess
Safety Indicators and Business Unit Head (BUH)
adherence to procedures and rules. NTPC has a pool of certified
review
auditors, including National Occupational Safety Association
(NOSA) certified auditors and ISO 45001 certified lead/internal NTPC maintains a robust safety observation and incident
auditors, ensuring quality audits. In Financial Year 2022-23, we reporting system using proactive lead indicators. Business Unit
initiated an additional expert safety audit for all NTPC stations Heads conduct monthly safety metric reviews, examining lead
for internal benchmarking purposes. This was completed for and lag indicators. The review report is shared with the Corporate
37 stations / projects of NTPC during FY 2023-24. For more safety team and discussed in meetings with Top Management.
information, please refer to NTPC's safety policy. Safety Indicators
Prioritizing Health and Safety10 Lead Indicators Lag Indicators
Deviations Fatal
Managing Emergencies: Ensuring Preparedness and Response
Near Miss Fire Incidents
To align with our objectives, NTPC has implemented effective
Training First-Aid
engineering controls and comprehensive emergency plans at
Pep Talk Non-Reportable
all stations. Clear responsibilities are assigned for handling
Reward and Recognition Reportable
emergencies, and regular mock drills are conducted to assess
10 GRI 403-2, 403-3
94 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 95
Occupational Health Services11 Corporate safety launched the mobile app “Suraksha” for reporting
work-related injuries and incidents. It is regularly updated for
NTPC prioritizes employee health, safety, and well-being through
user experience and new features. Over 12,000 employees have
various measures. Our NTPC hospitals provide round-the-
downloaded and used this app, providing real-time data for
clock medical care for employees and their dependents. We
analysis and preventive actions.
have partnerships with over 250 specialized hospitals in 25
cities for specialized treatments. Power plants are equipped Regular workplace monitoring mitigates risks related to dust,
gas, illumination, and noise levels. Trend analysis indicates
with ambulances featuring Advanced Life Support systems
improvements. Sessions educate employees and contract
for emergencies. Medical facilities include First Aid Centers,
workers about hazards, diseases, and lifestyle modifications.
Ambulance rooms, and qualified staff.
These measures foster a culture of safety and well-being.
Annual health check-ups are conducted, and personal health
Development of Safety Culture12
information is securely managed. Preventive checkups are
mandatory, promoting proactive health management. We We promote a collaborative and participative approach by fostering
organize lectures, camps, and awareness programs on medical employee participation, consultation, and communication on
and lifestyle topics. Holistic employee welfare includes spiritual, health and safety aspects. To be able to effectively carry forward
mental, and physical healing through programs like Snehal, and institutionalize such a participatory approach across all
Kshitiz, Sparsh, etc. Activities include yoga, meditation, therapies, levels and functions, training programs for our employees and
counseling, and promoting work-life balance, healthy habits, and contract workers are conducted regularly.
ergonomics.
Enhancing Safety through Training Contractor Safety: Promoting Collaboration
Initiatives13 and Safety Practices
All the agency workers are given safety induction training during
their initial employment. In addition, 23 job-specific training
modules on hazard awareness are also prepared, and the agency
workers are given the training as per their job requirements. Every
year, efforts are made to ensure that all our workforce undergo
this safety training.
The training programs cover topics concerning work-related
hazards and risks for our business, apart from topics about
general operations and best practices on occupational health
and safety.
To develop competency in safety management, among our
employees and stakeholders, we have established NTPC
Safety Academy at Unchahar. Our employees and stakeholders
are provided hands-on training on safety and emergencies
through physical mode as well as on a virtual platform. Power
Management Institute of NTPC also organizes safety training for
employees for different certification courses as well as topics as
per requirement.
11GRI 403 - 8 13 GRI 403 - 5
12GRI 403 - 4
96 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 97
Safety is a crucial aspect of our tender processes, and the of qualification. The dedicated guideline has been shared at our of safety training need analysis of workers in CLIMS has been affecting public health and safety. We regularly monitor the
performance of contractors is closely monitored throughout tender website https://ntpctender.ntpc.co.in/. initiated. workplace to identify and address potential hazards related to
the contract execution. We have implemented several control
work-related ill health, such as dust/coal dust, gas or vapour, and
processes and tools to assess and evaluate the safety To further fortify safety protocols and ensure a secure Periodic mass pep talks on general safety topics are conducted
noise levels. These monitoring activities are well-documented, and
performance of our suppliers and contractors. environment during project execution at NTPC, the following to create awareness and reinforce safety practices among
appropriate measures are taken to mitigate the identified hazards.
measures have been integrated into the Bidding Documents: workers. Incident Recall Talks are designed to refresh workers’
Any violation of the contractual conditions will produce specific learning from past incidents, reducing the likelihood of similar
In case of work-related injuries, we adhere to the NTPC Safety
penalties up to termination of the contract and/or suspension incidents and improving risk perception. Presentations developed
manual’s accident reporting system. Accidents undergo thorough
by Corporate Safety are shared with stations for Incident Recall
investigation following the prescribed procedure. Summaries of
Talks at the site.
fatal and reportable accidents are shared on the Safety intranet,
Ensuring Worker Safety and Well-being: Minimizing and details are communicated in project meetings, enabling
Injuries and Promoting Health14 the sharing of causes and recommendations. Work-related
injuries are promptly reported to senior personnel through a
Throughout the reporting year, NTPC had no incidents of work-
mobile application, facilitating immediate corrective actions, and
related ill health, occupational diseases, legal cases, or risks
ensuring workforce safety and well-being.
Enhancing Training Opportunities for Contractor various occupational health and safety topics. “Train the trainer”
Workers programs are organized by Corporate Safety to empower trainers
for the effective delivery of job-specific training.
A comprehensive safety induction training module is implemented
across NTPC to ensure uniformity. This mandatory training is
Before starting a job, a Job Safety Analysis (JSA) is performed to
conducted for individuals before they are granted access to the
identify hazards and mitigation measures. The area engineer or
plant.
supervisor delivers toolbox talks to workers, highlighting safety
points mentioned in the JSA.
NTPC has developed job-specific training modules to address
safety requirements for various roles and tasks in the plants.
The CLIMS system serves as a crucial gate pass system for
accessing the site, ensuring that only personnel with valid photo
To ensure the competency of agency workers, a Worker Role
identity cards are allowed entry. This measure enhances site
Competence Matrix is developed at the beginning of each
security and helps in maintaining a record of the individuals
contract, identifying specific training needs based on job
present on-site, contributing to better overall management and
nature and associated hazards. Regular training programs are
accountability. In FY 2023-24, another initiative of integration
conducted at all NTPC sites for contractor employees, covering
14 GRI 403 - 7, GRI 403-10
98 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 99
Social Capital
Overview Customer Engagement
Management Approach
Social capital is diverse within NTPC, manifesting in shared Customer Focus is a foundational value deeply rooted in
NNTTPPCC’’ss mmaannaaggeemmeenntt aapppprrooaacchh iiss rrooootteedd iinn pprriioorriittiizziinngg ppaarrttnneerrsshhiippss oovveerr pprroofifittss aass oouurr gguuiiddiinngg pprriinncciippllee.. values, robust social networks, community engagement, and NTPC’s culture, highlighting its paramount importance in
WWee fifirrmmllyy bbeelliieevvee tthhaatt ppeeooppllee aarree tthhee ccoorrnneerrssttoonnee ooff oouurr ssuucccceessss,, ppllaacciinngg tthheemm aatt tthhee ffoorreeffrroonntt ooff oouurr reliable support systems. Its significance lies in fostering unity, cultivating and nurturing strong relationships with its esteemed
resilience, and collective endeavors, empowering individuals and clientele. Reflecting this dedication, NTPC has implemented
ssttrraatteeggyy.. OOuurr ccoommmmiittmmeenntt lliieess iinn ffoosstteerriinngg aa ppeeooppllee--cceennttrriicc aanndd ppeeooppllee--ddrriivveenn aapppprrooaacchh tthhaatt pprroommootteess
communities linked with NTPC to access opportunities, resources, a comprehensive Customer Relationship Management
bbaallaanncceedd,, iinncclluussiivvee,, aanndd ssuussttaaiinnaabbllee ggrroowwtthh.. WWee ssttrriivvee ttoo ccrreeaattee aa mmuuttuuaallllyy bbeenneefificciiaall eennvviirroonnmmeenntt tthhaatt
and supportive networks vital for their well-being, growth, and
(CRM) framework, meticulously crafted to enhance customer
uupplliiffttss oouurr ccoommmmuunniittiieess,, ccuussttoommeerrss,, ssuupppplliieerrss aanndd ootthheerr ssttaakkeehhoollddeerrss,, pprroommoottiinngg eeqquuiittyy aanndd oovveerraallll wweellll-- societal advancement. NTPC acknowledges the pivotal role of
engagement and interaction. This holistic CRM approach
bbeeiinngg ffoorr aallll iinnvvoollvveedd.. social capital in cultivating a sustainable, inclusive culture that comprises a range of strategic endeavors, including customer
positively impacts both employees and local communities. We
support services, customized training initiatives, dynamic
actively cultivate, nurture, and sustain meaningful bonds with our
Key Highlights Data Trends interactive platforms, and ongoing stakeholder dialogues.
stakeholders, spanning suppliers, customers, and community
Through these integrated efforts, NTPC aims not only to share
members. Through collaboration and involvement, we aim to
essential knowledge and insights but also to actively address
cultivate trust and understanding, nurturing enduring social
51.64 % customer needs while fostering an environment conducive to
connections that underpin the success and longevity of our
collaborative partnerships.
endeavors.
procurement from MSEs
96.89%
Customer Satisfaction Score
`254.62 Cr
spent towards group CSR activities Mapping with SDGs
16.3 Lakh
lives touched through CSR work
Material Topic (s) NGRBC Principles
[9] [13] [11] [3] [5] [7] [8] [9]
NTPC proactively participates in Regional Power Committee (RPC)
meetings and Technical Coordination Committee gatherings to
engage with customers and gather insightful feedback regarding
their requirements. These dialogues encompass critical topics
such as merit order operations, generation flexibility, and
environmental compliance. Additionally, we work closely with
regulatory authorities and governmental entities at both central
and state levels to address concerns and protect the welfare of
our stakeholders. Through these collaborative endeavors, we
aim to bolster cooperation, meet customer needs, comply with
regulatory standards, and advance sustainability goals.
100 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 101
Demand-Side Management to sign Power Purchase Agreements with the State Power
Engagement with Central and State Governments
Utilities. The Ministry of Power, Government of India, manages
NTPC is not in the business of Power Distribution. Hence Demand
the allocation of power from the new Generating Station to the
Central Government
Side Management does not directly pertain to NTPC. However,
respective customers (State Utilities).
NTPC offers free seats for beneficiary DISCOMs to participate in
NTPC engages with the central government on policy issues,
Demand Side Management Programmes conducted at training Recognizing the growing demand for clean and sustainable
providing suggestions and views to shape the power sector’s
centres of NTPC. energy, we are redirecting our strategy to offer renewable energy
policy framework.
solutions. Our focus is on reducing reliance on coal and gas by
Special Workshops at customer end are also conducted with
State Governments integrating renewable power.
eminent faculties to educate beneficiary DISCOMs in this area
Continuous engagement with state governments is under Customer Relationship Management activity. To further To optimize resource utilization, surplus power not requisitioned
undertaken for new project development, issue resolution strengthen customer relationship, NTPC sponsored 10 officials needs redirection. The Commercial Function ensures this surplus
related to payment by DISCOMs (distribution companies), of beneficiaries / DISCOMs for the PGDM (Executive) program of power is available to other consumers through Power Exchanges
and policy advocacy. NTPC collaborates with state the NTPC School of Business for the year 2023-24 as a capacity or bilateral agreements. It is sold on both Day Ahead Market
governments on matters relevant to their jurisdiction. building initiative of power sector personnel equipping them with (DAM) and Real Time Market (RTM) platforms.
managerial and leadership skills. Health and Safety Impacts of Our Product2
NTPC supplies electricity generated from its power stations to
Integrated Day Ahead Market (I-DAM)
DISCOMs via the grid managed by central and state utilities like
POWERGRID, which is then distributed to end consumers. While Any power not scheduled by DISCOMs is offered first in the
not directly engaged in transmission and distribution activities, Day Ahead Market (10:00 hrs - 11:00 hrs of the previous
NTPC extends technical and managerial support services to its day). Besides selling URS power based on DISCOMs'
clients. We offer comprehensive customer assistance, including requests, power from merchant floating solar plants is sold
health and safety guidance through workshops and seminars, in the I-DAM market. Relinquished power from gas stations
with safety instructions presented in local languages. is sold in the HP-DAM and bilateral markets. NTPC also sells
regulated power from DISCOMs due to unpaid dues when
Given the inherent nature of electricity, it can not be labelled like
opportunities arise.
other tangible products. NTPC adheres to relevant Grid Codes
and Standards, both domestically and internationally. Throughout
the lifecycle of our offerings, there were no instances of non- Real Time Market (RTM)
compliance with regulations or voluntary standards concerning
The main objective of the RTM is to allow generating
health and safety impacts.
stations to sell surplus power and DISCOMs to buy power
Marketing Strategy3
for contingent needs. RTM operates through 48 half-hourly
auctions on the delivery date, enabling price-sensitive
Our marketing strategy is primarily overseen by the Commercial
bidding. Generators can sell URS power without beneficiary
Function for our Power Generation business, while the
consent in the RTM
Consultancy and Business Development Wing manages other
avenues. The Commercial Function evaluates the demand-
NTPC has been participating in both the I-DAM and the RTM for
supply dynamics in the region and promotes power from our new
selling any URS power in the Power Exchange through its trading
Customer Data Privacy1 proposed projects.
arm NVVN. Besides selling the URS power, it has also been selling
NTPC retrieves energy billing data from Monthly Regional Energy Accounts accessible through the RPC website. Tariff details for To expand our market presence, we engage with all State Power any regulated power, merchant power, relinquished gas power,
NTPC stations are set by CERC, while DISCOM officials' contact information is available on DISCOM websites. As this information is Distribution Utilities to secure power requisitions for the new infirm power in the Power Exchanges. In the FY 2023-24, record
publicly available, data privacy is not a concern. Energy bills are generated using ERP SAP software and transmitted to authorized proposed stations, which serve as a basis for further project 3,278 million units of power worth Rs. 1,774 Crores has been sold
DISCOM personnel in accordance with the Power Purchase Agreement (PPA). There were no reported incidents of customer data viability assessments. Upon receiving consent, we proceed in the various segments (plural) of power exchanges by NTPC.
breaches, leaks, thefts, or losses during the Financial Year 2023-24.
2GRI 416-1, 416-2
1GRI 418-1
3GRI 417-1, 417-2, 417-3
102 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 103
Corresponding gains for this sale have been shared with the for power requisitions and sign Power Purchase Agreements. Supplier Enlistment4
beneficiaries as per the extant regulatory provisions. The Central Government and State Governments are involved in
policymaking and providing a conducive environment for power NTPC places a strong emphasis on transparency and equity in To enhance efficiency and coordination with suppliers and
To streamline transactions and enhance customer convenience, generation, transmission and distribution. The Regional Power its procurement procedures, encompassing supplier enlistment contractors, NTPC operates a centralized Shared Services Centre
we have developed an online portal that directly connects Committee (RPC) and Load Dispatch Centers (NLDC, RLDCs, and and vendor oversight. Our vendor onboarding process entails (SSC) that consolidates goods and services requirements. This
customers/beneficiaries with the Regional Load Dispatch SLDCs) play a crucial role in ensuring efficient power dispatch thorough pre-qualification assessments to ensure qualifications, centralized approach enables cost efficiencies and favorable
Centers (RLDC). Stakeholders of the Commercial Function and coordination within their respective regions. capabilities, and adherence to health, safety, and environmental terms while ensuring better governance and policy compliance,
include regulators such as the Central Electricity Regulatory standards, along with statutory obligations including human rights. including rigorous vendor screening for environmental and
Commission (CERC), State Electricity Regulatory Commissions The description of basis of identification and selection of We conduct regular performance appraisals and transparent social impacts. Only vendors who meet the screening criteria are
(SERCs), and the Appellate Tribunal for Electricity (APTEL). stakeholders can be referred from below link: feedback mechanisms to support vendor enhancement efforts. considered for procurement opportunities.
Customers/beneficiaries are also a key stakeholder group, Vendor enlistment is valid for three years, with periodic updates
including State Power Distribution Utilities with whom we engage https://ntpc.co.in/sustainability/stakeholder-management to align with market dynamics. NTPC incorporates human rights provisions in bidding documents
to prevent instances of child labor, forced labor, and compulsory
Supplier Total Applications Total Vendors labor. We establish robust policies and frameworks to safeguard
Groups Received Enlisted the human rights of local and indigenous communities across
our supply chain.
Goods/ Materials 616 395
Services 2611 956
Total 3227 1351
TReDS On-boarding
NTPC joined all three RBI-approved Trade Receivables Discounting System (TReDS)
platforms, providing liquidity to MSMEs by connecting them with attractive interest rates
and early payment options
Vendor Payment Portal Digital Invoice Submission
NTPC launched a dedicated portal for suppliers NTPC implemented guidelines for 100% digital
and contractors to track and manage their bills, invoice submission in line with the Digital India
ensuring transparency and smoother payment initiative, enhancing efficiency, accuracy, and
processes transparency in invoice management.
We value vendor feedback and actively seek continuous benefits into our bidding documents. This encourages the
improvement in our vendor management systems, fostering utilization of indigenous goods and enhances the value of our
Supplier Engagement
stronger partnerships. Additionally, we have implemented local purchases. Since the Financial Year 2017-18, majority of
NTPC operates with a business model focused on establishing assets, sourcing raw materials, measures to streamline payment processes, embrace digital our total purchases have originated from indigenous sources,
and delivering power to end-users through intermediate customers. Our key goal is to improve innovations, and forge closer collaborations with our vendors. underscoring our dedication to bolstering local industries
supply chain sustainability and minimize adverse impacts. We follow a triple bottom line and fostering economic advancement in India. Furthermore,
Indigenous Focus
approach, giving priority to environmental, social, and governance considerations in our we prioritize local suppliers in accordance with the 'Public
At NTPC, we actively promote Indian bidders and suppliers by
decision-making process. Additionally, we actively advocate for the adoption of commendable Procurement (Preference to Make in India) Guidelines', aligning
integrating provisions for price preference and deemed export
environmental, social, and governance practices among our supply chain partners. with the 'Make in India' Initiative and bolstering the growth of
4GRI 414-1, 411-1
104 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 105
domestic businesses. These initiatives fortify the domestic Procurement Practices
supply chain, bolster self-reliance, and contribute to the overall
In our ongoing efforts to promote economic growth and
development of the Indian economy.
inclusivity, we maintain a steadfast focus on procuring from
Sustainable Supply Chain5 Engagement with
Micro and Small Enterprises (MSEs). Our Public Procurement
Regulators
At NTPC, we’ve established a Sustainable Supply Chain Policy underscores this commitment by establishing an annual
Management System to identify and address supply chain procurement target for MSEs. To encourage participation from
risks effectively. This system encompasses Suppliers’ local and small manufacturers, including MSEs, we offer various
Sustainability Performance Assessment and Sustainable incentives such as exemption from Earnest Money Deposit
Supply Chain Guidelines. To evaluate suppliers, we’ve developed (EMD), waiver of tender document fees, a purchase preference of
a comprehensive ‘Sustainability Performance Evaluation 15% for MSEs, and the reservation of 385 items exclusively for
Formulation of New Tariff Determination Process Submission of Relevant Data/ Regulators’ Meet
Framework’ in collaboration with a third party. MSE procurement. Regulations for Different Stations Information
A high-level Regulators’ Meet
NTPC actively participates NTPC files detailed petitions NTPC collaborates with CERC is organized periodically to
Additionally, we organized 26 capacity-building workshops Moreover, recognizing the significance of supporting marginalized in the formulation of new following the formats on various matters including discuss the regulatory issues
on Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) topics and vulnerable groups, we prioritize procurement from these regulations by providing prescribed by CERC for tariff the submission of mandated and other issues which may
for approximately 1300 suppliers through various Vendor sectors as part of our social responsibility. By engaging with comments and suggestions determination of its stations. information, addressing impact the power sector as a
to the concerned Additional information is implementation challenges, whole.
Development Programs (VDPs). These workshops aimed to regulators, we ensure that these groups have opportunities to stakeholders. We engage provided as requested by seeking relaxation for specific
enhance their practices in alignment with Sustainable Supply participate in our procurement processes, thereby contributing to with regulators through CERC or customers during issues, and discussing other
Chain Guidelines. Through these concerted efforts, NTPC is their economic empowerment. public hearings and present the hearing process. Once matters relevant to the
our views before any new the hearings are completed, company or the sector.
committed to continually enhancing sustainability performance regulation is finalized. CERC issues tariff orders for
throughout its supply chain. individual NTPC stations.
Sr. No. Period Total Eligible Procurement (` crore) MSEs % SC/ST % Women % Socio-Economic Compliance6 Our steadfast commitment to changing lives and enhancing
communities is evident through our continuous engagement
1 FY 2021-22 6,498.56 42.95 0.32 0.63
No significant non-compliance with laws and/or regulations in
with local communities across various geographical locations.
2 FY 2022-23 10,287.27 40.06 0.17 0.40 the social and economic area were identified during Financial
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is deeply intertwined with
Year 2023-24. There were no legal actions for anti-competitive
3 FY 2023-24 19076.19 51.64 0.13 0.34 our core business values. Under our Resettlement & Rehabilitation
behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices in the reporting
(R&R) Policy, we prioritize Community Development (CD) activities,
year.
Regulator Engagement initiating them as soon as a new project is conceptualized. We
Public Policy7 undertake extensive community and peripheral development
As a centralized institution, our policy framework aligns with
endeavors in tandem with project development efforts. For
We do not support, in cash or in-kind, any political party or their
Government of India guidelines. We operate under the regulatory
more details about our approach towards community initiatives,
members and related institutions.
oversight of the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission
following link may be referred:
(CERC), which sets electricity tariffs for our stations. Through Community Engagement
https://ntpc.co.in/about-us/corporate-functions/corporate-citizenship
regular Regulators’ Meets, we engage in discussions on
At NTPC, we view our operations as an avenue for creating Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)
issues, opportunities, and policies aimed at fostering both our
meaningful societal impact, reflecting our ethos of caring and
organization's growth and the national economy simultaneously. NTPC upholds a strong commitment to Corporate Social
sharing ingrained in our vision and mission statement. Our
These meetings are essential for ensuring alignment with Responsibility (CSR) practices, guided by the Companies Act
organization attributes its success to the people of India and
regulatory standards and advancing our strategic objectives 2013 and DPE Guidelines. Our CSR and R&R policies prioritize
is committed to contributing to their sustainable development.
in the electricity sector. We are committed to complying with active engagement with local communities through mechanisms
We're proud to highlight that 100% of our operational stations
all regulatory compliances. In Financial Year 2023-24 we have like Village Development Advisory Committees (VDAC) and Public
have implemented local community engagement, impact
had no cases of significant fines, penalties or warnings against Information Centres (PIC). Collaborating with stakeholders such
assessments, and/or development programs.8
us for non-compliance with government regulations. Our as Panchayat officials, District Administration, Civil Society,
management bodies ensure that our power distribution partners
and clients follow and stand at par with our commitment towards
6GRI 206-1
sustainability
7GRI 415-1
5GRI 414-2 8GRI 413-1
106 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 107
Community members, and Public representatives, we adopt a NTPC has a Board-level CSR and Sustainability Committee that
combination of top-down and bottom-up approaches for planning formulates an annual action plan for CSR activities, recommending
Girl Empowerment Mission : Empowering Girl Children through Residential Workshop
and executing community development activities. it to the Board for approval. The Board-approved CSR Policy
also outlines the implementation process and mechanisms. A summer residential workshop for 4 weeks is organized for girl children in the age group of 10-12 years selected from
Regular Need Assessment Surveys (NAS) and feedback
In FY 2023-24, NTPC (Standalone) spent `200.57 cr on CSR various Govt. Schools of villages in the vicinity of NTPC Projects/Stations including NTPC Joint Ventures & Subsidiaries.
from local stakeholders ensure that initiatives are tailored to against an obligation of `112.79 cr. Of this, `122.86 cr (61.26%) The workshop aims at empowerment/upliftment of girl children through various interventions to make girls self-reliant
community needs and continuously improved. A which policy and confident in all walks of life and become a
was aligned with the DPE’s annual theme of “Health & Nutrition,”
is this? not available on website enhances interaction, allowing catalyst in transforming their lives, the lives of their
exceeding the prescribed 60%. Through our holistic CSR
communities to submit suggestions and grievances, which family and bring positive changes in the community
approach, NTPC is dedicated to making a lasting and positive
are promptly addressed to build trust. Periodic Social Impact they live and the nation at large. The entire cost of
impact on society, promoting inclusive growth, environmental
Evaluations (SIE) by external agencies assess the effectiveness the program including boarding & lodging in a safe &
sustainability, and enhanced well-being.
secure environment for these girl children is borne by
of these initiatives, ensuring a positive impact on communities.
NTPC. In the year 2023-24, the said programme has
Assets created are handed over to local authorities and Gram None of our operating entities witnessed any significant actual
been conducted at 41 NTPC Projects / Stations/ JV &
panchayats for maintenance, ensuring sustainable community or potential negative impacts on local communities in reporting
Subsidiaries where about 2720 girls have participated.
development. year.9
Cumulatively NTPC has groomed more than 7000 girls
in the said since inception.
Significant Indirect Economic Impacts This involves the participation of Panchayats, local communities,
and authorities in all phases of planning, implementation, and
NTPC's initiatives have made a significant impact on reducing
monitoring. We actively seek feedback on CSR initiatives to
poverty and enhancing the overall prosperity of neighboring
ensure community acceptance and support, addressing any
communities. Through our interventions, underdeveloped areas
concerns raised. Key issues are deliberated upon in consultations
have experienced remarkable progress, including improvements
and regular meetings, with a dedicated focus on addressing
in village infrastructure, education and healthcare facilities, access
community feedback.
to clean drinking water, and better road networks. These benefits
are accessible to all community members, irrespective of their NTPC’s Stakeholder Engagement Policy outlines a clear
socio-economic background. NTPC places a strong emphasis on grievance redressal mechanism. An apex committee at each
supporting individuals from low-income backgrounds through station, including the Business Unit Head, HR, O&M, Technical
scholarships and vocational training opportunities, thereby Services, Medical Officer, and CSR/R&R officer, regularly interacts
promoting education and skill development. Prior to commencing with the community to address grievances and suggestions. The
our power projects, we conduct thorough social impact CSR Nodal Officer records and compiles these inputs, submitting
assessments and environmental impact assessments, ensuring them to the Head of HR for the apex committee's review. A drop
NTPC Foundation that our initiatives are aligned with the needs and concerns of the box is available for community members to submit grievances,
community. Detailed information regarding these assessments which are tracked and resolved within 60 days. Grievances
NTPC Foundation, established to serve and empower the
is available on the relevant government website. pending for over 30 days are escalated to the apex committee for
differently abled and economically weaker sections, including
expedited resolution.
Grievance Redressal: Ensuring Fairness in
women, undertakes projects addressing socio-economic
CSR Implementation
concerns. Key programs include the Girl Empowerment Mission Any grievances from project-affected villages or individuals are
(GEM), Utkarsh Scholarships, and Disability Rehabilitation Centers handled in accordance with policy provisions. This mechanism
NTPC ensures active stakeholder engagement in CSR activities
(DRCs). NTPC Foundation, a charitable trust, is registered with effectively minimizes and addresses grievances throughout the
through a consultative mechanism within the project's vicinity.
the central government (CSR-1 certification) for CSR activities implementation of CSR activities..
under the revised Companies (CSR Policy) Rules, 2021.
9GRI 413-2
108 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 109
 Digital and Educational Resources  Scholarships and Financial Support
01
Monitoring • Digital Smart Classrooms and STEM Labs: Established • Vidyarthi Vikas Yojana: Supported meritorious students
• Ensures timely completion of activities 02 Smart Classrooms and STEM Labs in 19 government from economically weaker sections in Maharashtra.
to achieve deliverables. Evaluation schools near NTPC Plants and Stations.
• Study Material & Uniforms: Distributed to underprivileged
• Regular reviews at the Unit Level • Effectiveness of CSR and Sustainability 03 • Mathematics Learning Kits: Provided kits for secondary children ensuring their right to education.
identify and address bottlenecks Programme is assessed through Reporting and higher secondary schools in Hardoi Parliamentary
through remedial measures. internal and external evaluations • Jaipur, Rajasthan: Provided financial support for running
• Our CSR and Sustainability activities Constituency, UP.
60 small single-teacher schools in slum areas.
• Periodic management information • Internal audits verify implementation are communicated to stakeholders
system (MIS) reports provide status effectiveness, while external agencies through the Company’s Annual Report, • Digital Libraries: Augmented rural educational
updates and address issues in conduct Social Impact Evaluations Sustainability/Business Responsibility infrastructure by digitalizing libraries in five government
CSR and Sustainability activities. (SIE) to gauge the impact of CSR and Reports colleges in Assam.
Regional level reviews support Senior Sustainability initiatives.
• Communication on the progress of
Management.
• Findings from the SIE inform corrective the Global Compact by uploading on
• Corporate-level reviews evaluate actions and future scheme/planning. UNGC Website.
company-wide CSR and Sustainability
• These reports are uploaded on our
activities, and budget utilization.
website and are available to the public.
Empowering Communities through our CSR Endeavors
Education
NTPC's educational initiatives have significantly enhanced the learning environment and infrastructure in underserved regions, from
establishing Smart Classes and STEM Labs to supporting tribal and marginalized students. Through strategic investments in school
facilities, digital resources, and financial aid, NTPC continues to contribute to the holistic development of education, ensuring equitable
access and fostering future leaders across the nation.
 Support for Tribal Education  Upgradation of Facilities
• Baiga Tribal Students: Sponsored education for Baiga • Ladakh Constituency: Upgrading educational, health
Tribal students seeking admission into engineering and facilities, and living conditions in Demchok, Koyul, Korjok,
medical colleges through Commissioner, Tribal Welfare, Hanley, and Chushul.
Chhattisgarh.
• Akal Academy, Punjab: Installed solar power plants with
Health, Water and Sanitation
• Pahadi Korwa Students: Provided holistic education necessary infrastructure.
support from class VI to XII in NTPC Korba, an aspirational
• Vivekananda Kendriya Vidyalayas, Arunachal Pradesh: NTPC’s comprehensive health, water, and sanitation initiatives have made a significant impact on community well-being. From providing
district.
Supported the upgradation of computer laboratories,
quality healthcare services and supporting major hospital projects to ensuring access to clean water and promoting sanitation, NTPC
 Infrastructure Development libraries, and construction of school buildings.
remains committed to improving the quality of life in the regions where it operates. Through strategic investments and community-
• Chapki, Sonebhadra: Supporting construction of facilities  Support for School Building Projects
focused projects, NTPC continues to drive positive change and enhance health and hygiene standards.
for a tribal school.
• Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose Military Academy,
• Shree Ramakrishna Ashram, M. Rampur: Established an Silvassa: Supported construction efforts.
English Medium School.  Healthcare Services and Infrastructure • Health Infrastructure Support: Extended support to
• Sri Gavisiddeshwara Matha, Koppal: Supported
PHCs, CHCs, and District Hospitals near NTPC Projects/
• GHSS Munderi, Kerala: Supported development, construction of a PU Residential College for girls. • Primary and Secondary Care: NTPC hospitals provide
Stations.
renovation, and advancement projects. quality primary, secondary, and referral care, serving over
• Osmania College of Engineering: Provided financial
• Vidyabharati Bharatiya Siksha Sankul Samiti, Chiplun: support for infrastructure development in the Mining 300,000 patients annually.  Major Healthcare Projects
Supported construction of a new ground floor. department. • Health Camps: Organized general and specialized • Chinmaya Mission Hospital, Bengaluru: Supported the
• Malleeswara Vidyaniketan School, Kerala: Supported • Government English Medium Model College, health camps, including eye care, respiratory diseases, installation of a Neuro Operation theatre with necessary
the construction of a second floor. Mahasamund: Supported renovation and infrastructure and cancer detection, performing approximately 3,000 equipment.
improvement. surgeries each year.
• National Cancer Institute, Nagpur: Contributed to the
• Mobile Health Clinics: Offered outreach services through construction and equipping of the 3rd floor and diagnostic
labs.
mobile health clinics to extend primary care to remote
areas.
110 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 111
• AIIMS, New Delhi: Supported setting up a Tele-Recording • Pond Rejuvenation: Revitalized ponds near NTPC Plants
Room and patient attendant shelter. to improve groundwater levels. Skill Development and Income Generation
• Tata Memorial Hospital, Mumbai: Provided equipment to • Energy Efficient Pump Systems: Installed 8,125 energy-
NTPC’s commitment to skill development and income generation is fostering economic empowerment and enhancing livelihoods. By
enhance diagnostic capabilities. efficient pump systems for farmers in 22 districts of UP.
establishing ITIs, supporting vocational training infrastructure, and offering targeted skill development programs, NTPC is equipping
• Dayanand Medical College & Hospital, Ludhiana: • Domestic Water Security: Supported the water security individuals with the skills needed for better employment opportunities and entrepreneurial success. These initiatives are driving
Supported the purchase of a Mobile Clinic Van. project in Sirvel Mahadev cluster, Khargone District,
positive change in communities and contributing to sustainable economic growth.
Madhya Pradesh.
• Osmania General Hospital: Provided medical equipment
to improve hospital facilities.  Sanitation Projects
 Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) rapidly growing fodder crops to improve livestock
• Indian Red Cross Society: Procured ultra-modern • Swachh Bharat Mission: Constructed over 24,000 toilets productivity.
• Mentorship and Establishment: Mentored 18 ITIs and
diagnostic equipment for NABL Laboratory & Research in 15,500 schools across 83 districts, with repair and
established 8 new ITIs at various locations to provide  IT and ITES Skill Development
Center, Ahmedabad, and Veraval, Gujarat. maintenance for around 19,000 toilets.
vocational training and enhance technical skills.
• Rural Youth Training: Collaborated with JP Foundation
• Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, Patna: • MSW Plant and Sweeping Projects: Revived the
 Vocational Training Infrastructure to provide IT and ITES skill development programs for
Supported the procurement of a computerized ECG MSW Plant at Varanasi and implemented mechanized
rural youth, enhancing their employability in the digital
machine. sweeping and waste collection. Varanasi improved its • Auditorium Construction: Supporting the construction of
economy.
Swachh Survekshan ranking from 428th in 2014 to 1st an auditorium at Rajkot, Gujarat, to develop educational
• Kai Wamanrao Oka Blood Centre, Thane: Supported the
among cleanest cities along the Ganga in 2023. and vocational training infrastructure.  Entrepreneurial and Vocational Training
procurement of blood bank equipment.
• Nukkad Natak and Awareness Campaigns: Organized  Agricultural and Livestock Training • Skill Development Programs: Offered training in various
 Disease Management
various awareness programs, including debates, vocational skills, including:
• Capacity Building for Farmers: Provided training
• Sickle Cell Disease: Addressed the prevalence of Sickle competitions, and walkathons to promote sanitation and
programs, exposure visits, and expert guidance on: - Electrical Repairing
Cell Disease in the Tribal and Scheduled Caste community hygiene.
in Bargaon, Madhya Pradesh. - Drip Irrigation: Techniques for efficient water use to - Mobile Repairing
• Toilet Construction: Built individual household and public
 Water Accessibility and Sanitation toilets in villages and public places to create an open increase crop yields. - Motor Rewinding
defecation-free society. - Milk Yield Improvement: Enhancing breed quality
• Water Supply Initiatives: Installed hand pumps, piped - Welding
through artificial insemination.
drinking water systems, RO water plants, and water • Sundargarh Sanitation Program: Supported procurement
- Car Driving (including LMV driving license)
ATMs. Provided water filters, coolers, and set up water of machinery for sanitation initiatives by NTPC Darlipali. - Fodder Crops: Cultivation of nutrient-rich and
booths and tankers during extreme summers. - Computer Training
112 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 113
Women Empowerment
Sports
NTPC’s women empowerment initiatives are transforming lives by providing essential skills, fostering entrepreneurship, and creating
NTPC’s promotion of sports initiatives is fostering talent, improving infrastructure, and elevating India’s presence in the international
sustainable livelihoods. Through targeted training programs and support for women-led enterprises, NTPC is driving significant socio-
sports arena. Through strategic partnerships and support for grassroots development, NTPC is making significant contributions to
economic improvements and enabling women to achieve greater independence and success in their communities.
the growth of sports in India, providing opportunities for young athletes to shine and enhancing local sports facilities for community
engagement.
 Skill, Livelihood and Entrepreneurship Development  Community Support and Infrastructure
• Textile and Home Furnishing: Provided skill and • Old Age Home Construction: Supported the construction  Archery Support and Development Championships, Asian Para Games, World Games, and
livelihood generation training to approximately 1,250 of Mata Hausabai Bandhu Athawale Old Age Home in Tokyo Paralympics.
women through NTPC Foundation in collaboration with • Collaboration with SAI: Partnered with the Sports
Mevali Village, District Fatehpur, Uttar Pradesh, providing
the Apparel Made-ups & Home Furnishing Sector Council. Authority of India (SAI) to support archery, focusing on  Grassroots Development in Archery
a safe and supportive environment for the elderly.
scouting talent from remote areas and providing coaching
 Sustainable Livelihoods through Agriculture • Partnerships: Collaborating with the Ministry of Youth
 Vocational and Skill Training camps to enhance India’s international presence in the
Affairs and Sports (NSDF), SAI, and Archery Association
• Mushroom Cultivation: Supported rural women in sport.
• Training Programs: Conducted various training sessions of India (AAI) to develop archery sports at the grassroots
Loni and Bhandegaon villages in cultivating oyster
for women on: • Achievements: From November 2018 to March 2024, level.
mushrooms, creating sustainable livelihoods and
Indian archers have won 241 medals including:
enhancing local income. - Embroidery  Water Sports Infrastructure
 Entrepreneurship Development - Dress Designing - Gold: 103 • NTPC-SAI Water Sports Centre: Provided infrastructure
support for the NTPC-SAI Water Sports Centre at Koldam,
- Silver: 75
• Offered Entrepreneurship Development Training - Cutting and Stitching Himachal Pradesh.
Programs and handholding support at five strategically - Bronze: 63
- Tailoring (including providing sewing machines) • Sports Supported: Kayaking, Rowing, and Canoeing.
chosen NTPC locations to help women establish and
manage their own entrepreneurial units. - Beautician Services • Tournaments: Medals won at prestigious events such  Local Sports Infrastructure
as the Asian Archery Championships, Asia Cup World
- Food Preservation and Processing Ranking Tournaments, Para Archery World Ranking • Playground Construction: Supported the construction of
Tournaments, World Cup Stages I-IV, World Archery Para playgrounds in village Khangora and Sidhipur, enhancing
- Nursing
sports facilities for local communities.
114 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 115
Rural Infrastructure Development & Preservation of Heritage Relief during Natural Calamity
NTPC’s diverse CSR initiatives in rural infrastructure development and protection of national heritage are driving significant NTPC’s proactive disaster relief initiatives are pivotal in rebuilding and restoring disaster-affected areas, particularly in Uttarakhand. By
improvements in local communities. By enhancing public amenities, supporting sustainable development, and preserving historical reconstructing essential infrastructure and supporting long-term redevelopment projects, NTPC is helping communities recover, build
sites, NTPC is contributing to the overall socio-economic growth and cultural preservation of the regions it serves. resilience, and return to normalcy after devastating natural calamities
 Solar Lighting Projects  Rural Electrification and Sustainable Development  Financial Support for Reconstruction redevelopment of Kedarnath town and its surrounding
areas, which were devastated by the natural calamity of
• LED Solar Street Lights & High Mast Lights: Installed in • Rural Electrification Project: Supporting electrification in • Uttarakhand State Disaster Management Authority
2013.
various locations including Talcher (Odisha), Gorakhpur Mandsaur district, Madhya Pradesh. (USDMA): NTPC is providing financial support to USDMA
(UP), Ambedkar Nagar (UP), Rohania (UP), Ayodhya (UP), for the reconstruction and restoration of government  Emergency Response and Relief Supplies
• Sustainable Irrigation and Agriculture: Implementing
Satna (MP), Ahmedabad West (Gujarat), Vizianagaram schools and health centers in various districts of
sustainable irrigation systems and agricultural • Provision of Necessary Supplies: NTPC has provided
(AP), Siddharth Nagar (UP), Kairana (UP), Sidhi (UP), Uttarakhand.
improvement programs in Nandurbar District of essential supplies and support to affected communities
Sitapur (UP), Misrikh (UP), Balia (UP), Chatra (Jharkhand),
Maharashtra and Natavad cluster, Nundarbar district of  Redevelopment Initiatives during various natural disasters.
and areas adjoining NTPC Stations & Projects.
Maharashtra.
• Kedarnath Town Redevelopment: Supporting the
 Redevelopment Projects  Technological Support and Renewable Energy
• Shri Badrinath Dham: Committed to the construction and • Battery Testing Laboratory: Financial support for setting
redevelopment of Shri Badrinath Dham town as a spiritual up a battery testing laboratory at Bhat GIDC, Gujarat.
smart hill town.
• Solar PV System: Providing financial support for the
• Ramna Maidan and Collectorate Chhath Ghat: installation of a 200KW Solar Photovoltaic system
Developing areas of historical importance from the First in Utthan Village, Bhayander (West), Thane District,
War of Independence (1857) in Ara. Maharashtra.
 Sports Infrastructure
• Dharhara Canal Redevelopment: Supporting the
redevelopment of Dharhara Canal at Arrah from Dharhara • Samal Stadium: Supporting the construction of dressing
Pul to Railway Crossing. rooms and toilets in Samal Stadium, Odisha.
 Community Infrastructure  Basic Infrastructure Development
• Community Halls and Centres: Constructing community • Infrastructure Development: Supporting the development
of essential infrastructure such as roads, bridges, culverts,
halls in Machilipatnam Parliamentary Constituency,
bus shelters, community centers, schools, health centers,
Krishna District, Andhra Pradesh, and ten community
and electrical infrastructure to meet the basic needs of
centres in Siddharthnagar District, Uttar Pradesh.
local communities and enhance their quality of life.
• YMA Hall Extension: Supporting the vertical extension of
Chaltlang Branch YMA Hall in Chaltlang, Mizoram.
116 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 117
Resettlement & Rehabilitation
Initial Community Development (ICD) Policy
We strive to avoid disagreements with our communities and address social issues at the exploratory stage of the projects itself. As a part
of our decision-making process, we have developed an R&R policy. Our Resettlement & Rehabilitation (R&R) policy covers community • Early Actions: Initiate community development actions as soon as land and water commitments are received from state
development (CD) activities- which are initiated as soon as a project is conceived. The CD activities are also initiated under ICD (Initial governments.
Community Development) Policy. We are sensitive towards the needs and aspirations of the Project Affected Persons (PAPs) and have
• Social Impact Evaluation: Conduct evaluations through professional agencies to assess and implement R&R plans effectively.
always tried for the best possible R&R package. We have established Public Information Centres/ R&R Offices to disseminate useful
information sought by the villagers. Other useful information is also communicated through notices, pamphlets, letters, etc.
Comprehensive Community Development Plan
In the last 10 years up to FY 2023-24, more than Rs. 2462 Cr worth of expenditure were incurred by NTPC towards Community
Development (CD) works by various Projects under R&R Plans. • Stakeholder Consultation: Formulate development plans in consultation with stakeholders and district administration.
Land compensation and R&R grants disbursement was in active mode mainly in Darlipali, Lara, Nabinagar, North Karanpura and
• Public Information Centres (PICs): Establish centers and Village Development Advisory Committees (VDACs) to facilitate
Tanda Super Thermal Power Projects and Pakri- Barwadih, Kerandari, Dulanga, Chattibariatu and Talaipalli Coal mining projects in
participation and transparency.
FY 2023-24.
• Stakeholder Engagement Policy: Maintain continuous interaction with neighboring communities to ensure effective participation
NTPC takes utmost care of the natives and Project Affected Families (PAF) due to its projects and there is no incident of violation and consultation.
involving rights of indigenous peoples.10
Proactive Measures to Minimize R&R Issues
• Initial Exploration: Address R&R concerns proactively at the project exploration stage to avoid significant displacement.
• Optimized Layouts: Redesign plant layouts to minimize the acquisition of homesteads and agricultural land, thereby reducing
land requirements.
• Commitment to Adequate Relocation: When physical displacement is unavoidable, ensure adequate relocation and minimize
the transition period and its impacts.
Grievance Redressal System
• Dedicated R&R Groups: Operate at project sites, regional headquarters, and the corporate center to address grievances of PAPs.
• Grievance Channels: Grievances are received through various channels, including RTI, and are resolved in a time-bound manner.
• Impact Mitigation: As a result of these efforts, no significant negative impacts on local communities were identified or reported,
and no grievances about societal impacts or violations of indigenous rights were filed during the reporting period.
R & R Policy 2017
• Guiding Framework: The policy aligns with ‘The Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation
Resettlement Colony of Dulanga Coal Mining project
and Resettlement Act, 2013’.
• Minimum Entitlements: Mandates minimum R&R entitlements and compensation, ensuring fair treatment of affected families.
• Social Impact Mitigation Plan: Requires studying the impacts of proposed land acquisition and formulating a plan to assess if
the project serves a public purpose before initial land acquisition notification.
Packages for Project Affected Persons
• Best Possible R&R Package: Provide comprehensive compensation for loss of assets and livelihood to help Project Affected
Families (PAFs) regain at least their previous standard of living.
• Categorization and Eligibility: Ensure that all PAFs receive compensation according to their categorization and policy provisions.
Dulanga- Individual Houses Lara- Rejuvenation of Ponds Lara- Primary Health Centre and
10GRI 411-1 Solar Water Pump
118 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 119
Intellectual Capital
Overview
Management Approach
Our intellectual capital represents our invaluable intangible assets NETRA's Role and Capabilities
NNTTPPCC’’ss mmaannaaggeemmeenntt aapppprrooaacchh ffoorr iinntteelllleeccttuuaall ccaappiittaall iinnvvoollvveess aalliiggnniinngg RR&&DD eeffffoorrttss wwiitthh iittss bbuussiinneessss and resources that drive the value and competitive advantage of
Established in 2009, NETRA is a state-of-the-art center for
ppoorrttffoolliioo,, rreeccooggnniizziinngg tthhee ssiiggnniifificcaannccee ooff eemmbbrraacciinngg eemmeerrggiinngg tteecchhnnoollooggiieess aanndd eennhhaanncciinngg eexxiissttiinngg oonneess iinn NTPC. Our commitment to research and development solidifies this
research, technology development, and scientific services.
tthhee gglloobbaall eenneerrggyy iinndduussttrryy.. BByy lleevveerraaggiinngg iinntteelllleeccttuuaall ccaappiittaall,, NNTTPPCC aaiimmss ttoo ddrriivvee iinnnnoovvaattiioonn,, eefffificciieennccyy,, aanndd financial asset, transforming knowledge into tangible outcomes.
NETRA collaborates with leading institutes, technology players,
It encompasses our cutting-edge methodologies, intellectual
ssuussttaaiinnaabbiilliittyy wwhhiillee ddeelliivveerriinngg lloonngg--tteerrmm vvaalluuee ttoo ssttaakkeehhoollddeerrss
and service providers both nationally and internationally. A
property including patents, trademarks, and copyrights, along
Research Advisory Council (RAC) comprising eminent scientists
with our extensive advisory services, educational facilities, and
Key Highlights Data Trends and experts from India and abroad has been constituted to steer
initiatives geared towards fostering innovation and sustainable
NETRA for high-end research. Additionally, an in-house Scientific
practices. By nurturing and harnessing our intellectual capital, we
Advisory Council (SAC) provides directions for improving plant
pave the way for continued growth and success, driving positive
47
performance and reducing the cost of generation.
impact and resilience within our organization and beyond.
patents granted to NTPC Research and Development The focus areas of NETRA are continuously evolving in response
to the dynamic nature of the power sector. Our current R&D
Our company acknowledges the significance of research and
focus includes Green Hydrogen carbon capture and utilization
70.60% (Y-O-Y) development (R&D) in the ever-changing energy sector. We
technologies, ash utilization technology, waste to energy, and
firmly believe that the assimilation and conversion of knowledge
water technology. This is in addition to our ongoing focus on
increase in R&D expenditure into technologies will be the key differentiator in the future for
efficiency improvement and cost reduction, new and renewable
enhancing the country’s energy security, economic growth and
energy, climate change, and environmental protection, which
environmental sustainability, and determining the company’s
5 Awards includes water conservation and waste management.
competitiveness in the national and international market.
in 5th edition of CII Digital
Material Topic UNGC NTPC fully recognizes R&D as the cornerstone of technological
Transformation (DX) Awards
[5] [14] [17] [9] advancement. Therefore, R&D has been incorporated into our
long-term vision and strategy for the benefit of the company
Mapping with SDGs and society. We have been assigning more than 2% of PBT
(Profit before Tax) consistently for R&D-related activities.
As we look toward the future, it is of paramount importance
that NTPC, as a power generation company, adapts to counter
emerging challenges in the power sector. Simultaneously, we
aim to increase our presence across the entire energy value
chain, and R&D is a vital step to achieve this. NTPC has always
committed to incorporating innovative technologies to enhance
the safety, reliability, and efficiency of power plants through a
prudent mix of development, adoption, and adaptation of frontier
technologies. Through our R&D center, NETRA (NTPC Energy
Technology Research Alliance), we are constantly making efforts
to address the major concerns of the power sector and explore
potential opportunities.
120 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 121
Nexus between knowledge, technology, and sustainability Driving Innovation and Knowledge Sharing
NTPC’s knowledge network showcases diverse collaborations and Intellectual Property Rights ownership, underscoring our
commitment to foster innovation and knowledge sharing.
ENERGY ENVIRONMENTAL ECONOMIC
KNOWLEDGE TECHNOLOGY
SECURITY SUSTAINABILITY GROWTH
Key Project Areas Water Technology
• 240 TPD Non Thermal Forward Osmosis based high
NETRA’s initiatives encompass a diverse range of activities
recovery system
demonstrating our expertise and commitment in the following
• 3600 TPD Electrocoagulation system at NTPC Solapur
areas:
• 4 MLD Activated Filter Media Plant at NTPC Dadri
Carbon Capture and Utilization Technology
• 10 TPD ‘CO to Methanol’ Demo Plant at NTPC- Vindhyachal Ash-Technology
2
• 10TPD ‘CO to Ethanol ‘ Demo plant at NTPC-Lara • Fly Ash based Light Weight Aggregate Pilot Plant Setup at
2
NTPC-Sipat
• Indigenous development of Catalyst & Reactor for
conversion of CO to Methanol in parallel • Set up of 100 m3/day fly ash based angular shaped coarse
2
aggregates plant on Fly Ash Lime Gympsum (FALG)
• Pre-feasibility assessment of CO2 storage potential in Cat-1
technology
Fields of India- with NCOE-CCUS and IIT-Bombay.
Waste to Energy
Hydrogen Technology
• Set up of a 10 TPD Plant Torrefied Biomass Pellet (through
• Sea Water based Green Hydrogen (1 TPD Plant at NTPC
R&D Expenditure1
‘Start Up’ initiative)
Simhadri)
The R&D expenditure of NTPC for Financial Year 2023-24 has witnessed a noteworthy surge, reaching `483.62 crore, which marks • Development of High Temperature Steam Electrolyser Other areas
an impressive increase of 70.62% compared to the previous financial year. This substantial growth exemplifies NTPC’s unwavering
• Green Hydrogen from STP Water (150 Kg/Day Plant at • AC Microgrid at Netra (4 MWp & 1 MWh)
dedication towards fostering innovation and embracing sustainable practices. By investing significantly in research and development,
NETRA Campus) • RSA (Residual Stress Analyzer): Evaluation of Ferritic &
NTPC continues to demonstrate its proactive approach towards driving positive change and establishing itself as a leading force in
Austenitic Steel, Ni, Al, Cu tubes
the pursuit of a sustainable future.
1GRI 203-1
122 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 123
Unlocking the Value of Research & implementing preventive measures at power stations, including 20 TPD Flue Gas CO to 10 TPD • Components: The plant features two main sections:
regeneration treatments, chemical cleaning, and corrosion 2
Technology Development Methanol Plant at NTPC Vindhyachal - CO Absorption Section: Uses Modified Tertiary
2
control. The majority of our projects involve the development Amine as a solvent to absorb CO from the flue gas.
2
NETRA has undertaken significant projects to address concerns and demonstration of new technologies, with technological trials Salient Strengths
- CO Stripping Section: Strips the CO gas from the
related to the environment, climate change, reliability, efficiency being an integral part of their work. • Liquid Fuel Production: Conversion of CO captured from 2 2
2 absorber solution.
improvement, and renewable energy. It is actively working on fossil-fired power plants into methanol, a liquid fuel.
Scientific Services Support to NTPC Stations Status: Commissioned
reducing carbon footprint through carbon capture and utilization, • Versatility of Methanol: Methanol can be further reformed into
on Continuous Basis2 Di-methyl Ether (DME), which serves as an equivalent to diesel 2. 2 TPD Hydrogen Generation Block
specifically through pilot projects that aim to capture CO from a
2 and LPG.
thermal plant and convert it into valuable products like methanol, NETRA, the R&D arm of NTPC, provides state-of- the-art • Technology: Utilizes Proton Exchange Membrane (PEM)
• Reduced Greenhouse Gas Emissions: This process contributes Electrolyser for hydrogen production.
ethanol, carbonated coarse aggregates, etc. It has also taken up scientific support to NTPC stations and other utilities in
to lower GHG emissions.
research and development projects for hydrogen technology, various critical domains such as Non- Destructive Examination • Advantages: PEM water electrolysis is highly sustainable
• New Business Opportunities: Opens potential new avenues and has a high ‘turn-down ratio’ and ‘ramp-rate’, making it
water technologies such as desalination, and innovative ash (NDE), Metallurgy & Failure analysis, Oil/water chemistry,
for NTPC in the energy and chemical sectors. well-suited for integration with renewable energy sources.
utilization processes. Environment, Electrical, and Computational Fluid Dynamics
Project Brief • Status: Under Commissioning
(CFD). With a steadfast commitment to specialized expertise,
NETRA is dedicated towards enhancing reliability and efficiency 3. 10 TPD Methanol Synthesis Block
NETRA excels in these areas, empowering power utilities with The project is structured into three interconnected blocks:
through advanced scientific services like non- destructive
enhanced efficiency and sustainable energy solutions. By • Production Process: Methanol is synthesized through
evaluation, CFD analysis, and metallurgy and failure analysis. 1. 20 TPD Carbon Capture Block catalytic hydrogenation.
leveraging extensive knowledge and proficiency, NETRA plays
They are also involved in cutting- edge technologies like robotic • Process Overview: CO is captured from flue gas
a pivotal role in strengthening the capabilities of power utilities, 2 • Quality: The methanol produced will be of Grade-A purity.
solutions for inspections, asset digitization and monitoring downstream of the Flue Gas Desulphurization (FGD)
ensuring efficient and reliable performance. Details of specific Plant. • Status: Under Commissioning
through drones, and the development of novel sensors. NETRA’s
projects can be accessed from NETRA page at NTPC website.
activities have been instrumental in analysing failures and
(https://www.ntpc.co.in/about-us/corporate-functions/netra/about-netra)
New Products & Technologies Developed3
1. 24 TPD Electro-Dialysis Reversal (EDR) System for treatment of STP water
2. 20 TPD CO capture block of 10 TPD CO to Methanol plant at NTPC -Vindhyachal
2 2
3. MSW 400 KWe MSW-RDF Enhanced Steam Gasification plant
4. Development of Sea Water Electrolyzer in collaboration with RGIPT, Amethi
2,3GRI 203-1
124 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 125
25 TPD CO to 10 TPD Ethanol Plant at NTPC Lara Leveraging Decades of Knowledge Base4 range of services for large power stations, including engineering,
2
operations and maintenance, project management, contracts
Salient Strengths NTPC’s learning initiatives are endowed with sophisticated
and procurement, renovation and modernization, quality
• Land Efficiency: No additional land is required for the plant's operation. training centres like the Power Management Institute (PMI), and inspection, training and development, human resources,
Regional Learning Institutes (RLIs), the Safety Academy, Employee
• Reduced Greenhouse Gas Emissions: Significant reduction in GHG emissions through CO utilization. information technology, and solar/renewable power projects.
2 Development Centres (EDCs), and Simulator Facilities. Learning
These services also ensure compliance with environmental
• Sustainable Aviation Fuel: Production of ethanol, which can be used to create Sustainable Aviation Fuel (SAF).
and Development (L&D) is focused on future roles, technology
regulations.
• New Business Opportunities: Potential to explore new markets for both ethanol and aviation fuel. advancements, business acumen, and leadership in the VUCA
world. Training is conducted through hybrid mode leveraging NTPC’s consultancy services extend internationally, including
Project Brief
classrooms, simulators, online platforms, VR, and e-Learning. projects in various countries and members of the International
The “CO to Ethanol” plant at NTPC Lara will be a pioneering global initiative, transforming CO from flue gas of a coal-fired power plant Solar Alliance (ISA). Overall, NTPC’s Consultancy Division
2 2 Executive Trainees undergo a year-long program with on- the-
into 4G-Ethanol using a biological synthesis route. The plant comprises three main blocks: supports the power industry domestically and internationally,
job, simulator, technical, managerial, and soft skills training.
promoting sustainable practices and contributing to global
1. CO Capture Block Planned Interventions such as the Foundation Course, Enhancing
2 energy initiatives. More information on these projects can be
Managerial Competence (EMC) and Advance Management
• Process Overview: CO is extracted from the flue gas of the power plant using chemical sorbents. found on NTPC’s website.
2
Program (AMP) are provided at three identified stages of career
• Capacity: 25 TPD Business Development6
to the Executives. Job rotations, and transfers offer additional
• Technology: Tertiary Amine Solvent experiential learning. With nearly five decades of experience in energy value chain,
• Objective: Capture CO 2 with a purity of >99% (dry basis). Our Consultancy Services5 NTPC is pioneering adoption and commercialisation of new
2. Hydrogen Generation Block technologies through its Business Development route. Some of
NTPC’s Consultancy Division leverages its extensive experience
the major initiatives undertaken are:
• Process Overview: Hydrogen is produced through electrolytic processes. and expertise to support the Indian power industry. It offers a wide
• Capacity: 3 TPD
Bamboo-Based Bio-Refinery at Bongaigaon
• Technology: PEM / Alkaline Electrolyzer
• Objective: Generate green hydrogen with a purity of >99.9% (dry basis). NTPC is actively exploring innovative approaches to set up a Bamboo-Based Bio-Refinery at Bongaigaon Thermal Power Station. This 2G Bio-
Refinery will leverage locally available bamboo resources. The project aims to produce 2G bioethanol from bamboo, which will not only contribute
3. Ethanol Synthesis Block
to renewable energy production but also generate bio-coal as a by-product. This bio-coal is planned for use as a blended fuel with coal in the
• Process Overview: Bongaigaon power plant, thereby optimizing fuel use and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. An important milestone in this endeavor was the
signing of a non-binding Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Chempolis on April 10, 2023, to explore the feasibility of this project.
- Conversion: CO is converted to CO via reverse water gas shift reaction.
2
- Biological Synthesis: Syngas (a mixture of CO, CO, and H) is used to produce ethanol.
2 2
Hydrogen Hub at Pudimadaka
- Purification: Ethanol is purified to meet the required quality.
NTPC is spearheading the establishment of a Green Hydrogen Hub at Pudimadaka, located near Vishakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh. This ambitious
• Capacity: 10 TPD
project envisions the creation of a comprehensive facility for the production and export of green hydrogen, ammonia, and green chemicals. The
• Technology: Bio-catalytic process
initiative also includes setting up a manufacturing facility for hydrogen-related equipment. A detailed proposal for the Hydrogen Hub was submitted
• Objective: Produce ethanol with purity as per IS 15464: 2022. to the Andhra Pradesh Government on January 11, 2023, and received approval on February 24, 2023. NTPC Green Energy Ltd (NGEL), NTPC’s
dedicated green energy arm, has taken significant steps towards this project by executing the land lease deed with Andhra Pradesh Industrial
Infrastructure Corporation (APIIC) on February 20, 2024. This development aligns with NTPC’s strategic goal of advancing sustainable energy
solutions and expanding its footprint in the green energy sector.
Initiatives for Start-Up Ecosystem
In a bid to foster innovation and explore cutting-edge solutions, NTPC is developing a robust Innovation and Start-Up Ecosystem. This initiative
aims to address NTPC’s existing challenges through innovative and unconventional approaches. As part of this effort, NTPC launched a Grand
Energy Challenge in collaboration with Startup India, presenting three problem statements related to its business. Additionally, NTPC has approved
the procurement of biomass pellets on a pilot basis for its Mouda and Solapur sites via the Biomass Marketplace. The auction for biomass
procurement at the Mouda site has been successfully completed through this digital platform, marking a significant step towards integrating
innovative biomass solutions into NTPC’s operations and enhancing its sustainability practices.
4GRI 404-1, GRI 404-2
5,6GRI 201-1
126 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 127
Driving Sustainable Digital Transformation Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) assesses contractor performance, ensuring transparency and
effective project management. The Employee Personnel File
NTPC’s Journey • Real Time Market (RTM) System: NTPC has obtained IPR for
Management System securely stores and manages personnel
the RTM system, providing an organized platform for real-time
At NTPC, we embrace digital transformation as a continuous practice to redefine customer interactions, streamline business processes, energy trade. Key features include: files, accessible only to authorized HR employees.
and shape our organizational culture. The Indian power sector is undergoing a transformative shift due to emerging technologies,
- Half-hourly markets with a gap of 15 minutes.
digital advancements, and innovative business models, revolutionizing the industry. Aligned with our corporate vision, we strategically
- Right to recall/revision of schedule up to the 7th & 8th
integrate IT to make data-driven decisions, gain a competitive edge and achieve goals. We are traversing through the following steps,
blocks.
as we progress in our journey of digital transformation.
- Gate Closure concept, and double-sided bidding for both
supply and demand.
• Drawing Review and Engineering Approval Management
System (DREAMS 2.0): This system facilitates the review
and approval of engineering drawings/documents, offering
features such as:
- Revision control, annotations, and reporting
- Responsive design for mobile and tablet access
- Audit trail for annotations and comments
- Secure locking feature for final released document
Moreover, the budget proposed for multiple Digital Initiatives
Platform to timely and successfully achieve the Digital Initiative
Implementation, Low Code No Code Platform, SAP S4 HANA
implementation, M365 deployment on Cloud Integration, Advance
Pattern Recognition, Drone Technology, Cyber Security, Network
Operation Centre (NOC) implementation is in the tune of Rs. 550
Crores for next two years
At NTPC, Core Technology Layers are the foundation for extensive Digital Strategy
transformation. We operate four organizational platforms: ERP • Cloud and Mobile Integration: Implementing a comprehensive Web & Mobile Apps as Part of Digital Initiatives
(SAP), ECM (PRADIP), M365-Virtual Office, and Web/Mobile Apps. digital strategy that includes cloud computing, mobile
With the new digital initiatives underway, NTPC intends to become
By adopting an enterprise-wide platform approach, we ensure technologies, IT strategy, and cybersecurity to maximize
a fully digitalized organization both for its core and non-core
scalability and efficient resource utilization, minimize duplication, customer reach and enhance user experience.
functions, and also act as a role model for the industry. NTPC has
enable rapid expansion, and optimize total cost. These layers Data Analytics and Automation
launched various digital initiatives through web and mobile apps
empower our departments, functions, and units for time and
• Effective Data Analytics: Supporting IT/OT integration and designed to streamline operations and enhance efficiency. The
financial optimization, scalability, integration, and innovation.
automation projects through a robust data analytics strategy.
Strategic Initiative Management System helps plan, execute,
We’re steadily progressing towards our digital transformation
• Disruptive Technologies: Leveraging disruptive technologies and evaluate strategic targets, providing management with a
goal.
such as Artificial Intelligence (AI), Machine Learning (ML), dashboard to track progress. The Mobile App for NETRA offers
Key Initiatives by NTPC Digital Twin, Virtual Reality (VR), Augmented Reality (AR), and
a unified view of NTPC’s R&D activities and knowledge base.
Robotic Process Automation (RPA) to drive innovation and
NTPC has undertaken a series of strategic initiatives aimed at The Sangam Portal provides access to all intranet-based non-
efficiency.
transforming its business operations, integrating advanced ERP applications through Single Sign-On (SSO) and facilitates
Information Security
technologies, and promoting environmental sustainability. Below the creation of new intranet websites. IDEATHON fosters
are some of the significant measures: • Comprehensive Security Measures: Implementing key security innovation by nurturing new ideas and start-ups, promoting an
measures including a Security Operation Centre (SOC), cloud-
entrepreneurial mindset among employees. The CERC Tariff
Strategic Business Transformation based WAAP solutions, Zero Trust Network Access, and unified
Petition System automates petition submission processes,
End Point Vulnerability and Security Management Solutions.
• Bringing Business Closer to Technology: NTPC is undergoing while Engineering Calculator 2.0 aids in engineering calculations
a strategic business transformation to align its operations • Security Operation Center (SOC): The SOC operates 24x7, and understanding energy market scenarios. The Contractors
more closely with technological advancements, ensuring analyzing over 15 billion events monthly, enabling real-time
Performance Feedback and Evaluation System monitors and
greater efficiency and competitiveness. monitoring of external attack, integrating security solutions
like SIEM, NGFW, and NGAV for quick analysis and reporting.
128 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 129
Performance Snapshot
GRI 303-5 Water Consumption
GRI 303-3 Water Withdrawal by Source
FY 2022-23 FY 2023-24 KPI UOM All Areas All Areas
KPI UOM
All Areas Water Stressed Area All Areas Water Stressed Area Water Consumptions FY 2022-23 FY 2023-24
Surface water (Rivers,lakes, reservoir, Wetland ) Natural Fresh Surface water MCM 1068.36 1125.73
- freshwater (≤ 1,000 mg/l Total Dissolved Solids) MCM 5478.26 5390.70 6015.03 5924.94
Sea water (Desalinated) MCM 4.58 4.72
- other water (> 1,000 mg/l Total Dissolved Solids) MCM 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Rain Water (Harvested) MCM 0.85 2.30
Collected Rain water ( Artifical reservoir) )
Sea water MCM 57.18 8.78
- freshwater (≤ 1,000 mg/l Total Dissolved Solids) MCM 4.10 0.07 5.85 4.13
- other water (> 1,000 mg/l Total Dissolved Solids) MCM 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Total Fresh Water Consumption MCM 1073.79 1132.75
Ground water
- freshwater (≤ 1,000 mg/l Total Dissolved Solids) MCM 0.00 0.00 0.36 0.36 GRI 303-4 Water Requirement Reduction as per NTPC’s 3R
- other water (> 1,000 mg/l Total Dissolved Solids) MCM 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
KPI UOM All Areas All Areas
Water from thirdparty
Rain Water FY 2022-23 FY 2023-24
- freshwater (≤ 1,000 mg/l Total Dissolved Solids) MCM 0.55 0.24 0.46 0.46
- other water (> 1,000 mg/l Total Dissolved Solids) MCM 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Surface water storage MCM 4.10 5.85
Withdrawal from non scarce source: Ground water Recharge MCM 0.48 0.52
Sea water MCM 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Waste Water Reuse & Recycling
- freshwater (≤ 1,000 mg/l Total Dissolved Solids) MCM 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Waste Water Generated MCM 354.23 380.03
- other water (> 1,000 mg/l Total Dissolved Solids) MCM 179.10 0.00 168.76 168.76
Total Water Withdrawal MCM 5662.01 5391.01 6190.45 6098.28 Waste Water Reused (No Treatment) MCM 273.14 323.90
Waste Water Treated
GRI 303-4 Water Discharge Primary treatment MCM 0.08 5.87
Secondary treatment MCM 80.83 51.96
KPI UOM All Areas All Areas
Tertiary treatment MCM 0.19 0.09
Water Discharge by Destination & Level of Treatment FY 2022-23 FY 2023-24
Total Surface water (wetlands, lakes, rivers) MCM 4410.97 4889.80 Waste Water Recycled
No treatment MCM 4401.83 4889.29 Primary treatment MCM 0.06 4.56
Primary treatment MCM 0.01 0.17
Secondary treatment MCM 71.70 51.25
Secondary treatment MCM 9.13 0.34
Tertiary treatment MCM 0.19 0.09
Groundwater MCM 0.0 0.0
Third party water MCM 0.0 0.0 Waste Water (Treated) Discharged MCM 9.14 0.51
Seawater MCM 117.34 155.26 Percentage of recycled and reused water % 97.42 99.94%
No treatment MCM 117.34 155.26
Total Water Discharge MCM 4528.31 5045.06 GRI 301-1 Material (Non-Energy) used
Water Discharge by Technology
Discharge of water used for once through cooling system MCM 4519.17 5044.54 Input Materials Chlorine Ammonia Alum HCl H2SO4 NaOH Lube OIL Transformer Oil
Other surface water discharge MCM 9.14 0.51 UOM MT MT MT MT MT MT KL KL
Water discharge by freshwater and other water MCM 4528.31 5045.06
Consumption 3949.88 1315.40 19116.46 39530.98 42231.32 8042.49 4479.06 245.12
- freshwater (≤ 1,000 mg/l Total Dissolved Solids) MCM 4410.97 4889.80
- other water (> 1,000 mg/l Total Dissolved Solids) MCM 117.34 155.26
130 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 131
GRI 302-1 Material & Energy consumption inside of the organization
FY 2021-22 FY 2022-23 FY 2023-24 Energy Consumption: Auxilary Power Consumption
MMT 226.54 250.20 264.52 Type UOM FY 2022-23 FY 2023-24
Coal Kcal/Kg 3487.62 3522.76 3489.08 MU 81.12 124.70
Solar
% 1.81 1.92
TJ 3305688.84 3687815.61 3861577.046
MU 2.75 2.52
MMSCM 2029.40 1386.95 1991.21 Wind
% 0.85 0.74
Natural Gas Kcal/SCM 9320.97 9279.31 9334.19
MU 25458.68 27015.58
TJ 79144.42 53847.76 77765.35 Total
% 6.38 6.42
MT 8923.00 16355.58 304.86
Naptha Kcal/Kg 11353.00 11361.41 11382.77
TJ 423.85 777.48 14.51 GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption
KL 139853.77 144360.29 147859.70
Name of Indicator Unit FY 2022-23 FY 2023-24
LDO Kcal/KL 9384.69 8870.84 9422.33
Electrical Energy MU 139.61 142.71
TJ 5.49 5.36 5.82
Heat Energy (Eq. MT of coal) MT 23022 36140
KL - - 9961.06
Heat Energy (Eq. MCM of Gas) MCM 0 0
LSHS Kcal/KL - - 9740.15
Total Energy Saved TJ 1735.5 1921.9
TJ - - 0.405
KL 49821.36 38087.07 34714.04
HFO Kcal/KL 9761.40 9249.86 9239.55 GRI 306 Waste
TJ 2.03 1.47 1.34 Hazardous Waste
KL 18177.57 28835.93 65.15
GRI 306-3 GRI 306-4 GRI 306-5
HSD Kcal/KL 9054.00 9033.86 9044.20
Waste
TJ 0.69 1.09 0.0025 Waste diverted from disposal Waste diverted to disposal
Generated
Type of Waste (MT)
MT 40386.00 20034.00 171719.04
Other
Biomass Kcal/Kg 2943.00 2943.00 3226.18 Total Re-used Recycled Other Recovery Incineration Landfilling Disposal
Options
TJ 497.29 246.69 2317.92 Option
PCB 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Spent Resins 133.04 0.00 0.00 0.00 64.64 0.00 16.36
GRI 302-1 Auxilary Power Consumption
Used Oil 1221.90 709.50 721.62 0.00 11.95 0.00 131.00
Energy Consumption: Auxilary Power Consumption Discarded Containers 1110.37 474.80 263.31 4.28 0.00 0.00 1.20
Insulation Waste 1860.59 0.00 0.00 0.00 91.38 1392.13 10.40
Type UOM FY 2022-23 FY 2023-24
FO Sludge 57.00 0.00 50.00 0.00 12.28 0.00 0.63
MU 25114.09 26533.80
Coal Stations Total Hazardous Waste Generation 4382.90 1184.30 1034.93 4.28 180.25 1392.13 159.59
% 6.68 6.73
MU 187.11 285.21
Gas Stations
% 3.61 3.72
MU 71.48 67.00
Hydro
% 0.56 0.54
MU 2.13 2.36
Small Hydro
% 1.87 2.09
132 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 133
Non-Hazardous Waste
GHG Mitigation
GRI 306-3 GRI 306-4 GRI 306-5
Type UOM FY 2021-22 FY 2022-23 FY 2023-24
Waste
Waste diverted from disposal Waste diverted to disposal Carbon Sink Created mil t 0.74 0.76 0.78
Generated
Type of Waste (MT)
Avoided emissions mil t 13.91 16.91 18.36
Other
Other Recovery
Total Re-used Recycled Incineration Landfilling Disposal
Options
Option GRI 305-1 GHG Emission - Scope 1
Ferrous 29795.49 33.27 23821.48 900.00 0.00 0.00 4485.70
Type UOM FY 2021-22 FY 2022-23 FY 2023-24
Non-Ferrous 3295.41 0.00 1325.91 0.00 0.00 0.00 597.08
CO2 emissions from the electricity production mil t 304.08 336.46 353.25
Municipal Solid Waste
5070.04 240.99 1389.46 181.39 0.00 1933.30 1324.91
Biodegradable Emissions from coal electricity gen. mil t 300.10 333.69 349.40
Municipal Solid Waste Non- Emissions from gas electricity gen. mil t 3.98 2.78 3.85
2883.77 0.00 279.63 105.10 83.00 1637.08 920.97
Biodegradable Other CO2eq emissions due to electricity
mil teq 0.06 0.02 0.04
Plastic Waste 385.79 70.00 52.38 43.00 22.32 0.00 264.59 production and other activities
Total Non-Hazardous of which: emission from losses of SF6 from
Waste Generation 41430.50 344.26 26868.85 1229.49 105.32 3570.38 7593.25 energy production ton eq 57360.00 20250.47 43084.53
of which: emission from losses of HFCs from
ton 1048.80 210.64 43.08
energy production eq
Other Waste
Total direct emissions (Scope 1) mil teq 304.14 336.48 353.29
GRI 306-3 GRI 306-4 GRI 306-5
SCOPE 1 Emissions (after adjustment) mil teq 303.40 335.70 352.47
Waste
Waste diverted from disposal Waste diverted to disposal
Generated
Type of Waste (MT)
Other
Other Recovery GRI 305-2 GHG Emission - Scope 2
Total Re-used Recycled Incineration Landfilling Disposal
Options
Option UOM FY 2021-22 FY 2022-23 FY 2023-24
BMW 211.06 0.00 0.00 0.00 205.03 2.11 4.92 Emission due to power consumption by Building
Ton 16400.34 15810.22 16971.33
E-Waste 873.37 0.00 57.29 760.00 0.00 0.00 28.26 and Offices
Batteries 1658.05 10.48 44.20 36.07 0.00 0.00 26.76 Emission due to power consumption by Hydro/
Ton - 69933.22 57829.17
Gas Plants during Shutdown
Construction and Demolition
90439.46 12835.76 924.00 2.00 0.00 56155.50 20391.00
Waste
Radioactive Waste 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
GRI 305-3 GHG Emission - Scope 3
Total Other Waste Generation 93181.93 12846.24 1025.49 798.07 205.03 56157.61 20450.94
UOM FY 2021-22 FY 2022-23 FY 2023-24
GRI 305-7, 305-6 Air (Non GHG Emissions) Transport of coal by Road Ton 70,898.00
Transport of coal by sea Ton 4,92,900.00 34,51,606.00 22,68,941.00
Type UOM FY 2021-22 FY 2022-23 FY 2023-24
Transport of coal by train Ton 6,06,841.98 8,91,322.31 8,91,703.00
SO2 emissions Ton 1621349 1767481.60 1863639.27
NOx emissions Ton 640419 657376.38 671807.38 Commute to workplaces by Employees Ton 12,034.30 17,421.13 29,654.51
Particular Matter Ton 91115 89294.96 96752.02 Business Travels by Employees Ton 2,103.62 4,202.26 5,025.23
Hg emissions Ton 7.23 7.00 8.53 Total indirect emissions (Scope 3) Ton 11,13,879.89 43,64,552.04 3266221.74
Specific emissions
SO2 emissions g/kWh 4.50 4.43 4.41
NOx emissions g/kWh 1.78 1.65 1.59
Particular Matter g/kWh 0.25 0.23 0.23
Hg emissions g/kWh 0.00 0.00 0.00
134 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 135
136 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 137
seeyolpme
dna
seidob
ecnanrevog
fo ytisreviD
1-504
IRG
)ylnO
CPTN(
elfiorP
eeyolpmE
puorG
elbarenluV
latoT
puorG
egA
yllaicepS
TS/CS/CBO
delbA
elameF
elaM
05>
05-03
03<
seeyolpmE
seeyolpmE
eeyolpmE
elameF
elaM
elameF
elaM
elameF
elaM
elameF
elaM
elameF
elaM
elameF
elaM
seirogetaC
srotceriD
fo draoB
0
6
6
*PMK
dna
roineS
/poT
6
3
24
3
24
tnemeganam
tnenamreP
eeyolpme
elddiM
85
0941
83
091
3383
57
0451
511
3922
tnemeganam roinuJ/rewoL
413
3573
31
951
236
3276
15
3611
554
9634
621
1911
tnemeganam
tnenamreP
671
6052
83
942
093
1454
412
6022
721
2771
94
365
nemkroW
srekrow
CPTN
latoT
845
5577
15
644
5121
54151
343
7594
796
4348
571
4571
seeyolpmE
84
876
2
71
18
0311
9
48
27
6401
seeniarT
naht
rehtO
tnenamrep
23
572
4
86
425
11
31
913
55
491
seeyolpmE
eeyolpme
naht
rehtO
lautcartnoC
4001
36483
31
594
5602
407901
292
27901
6141
16906
753
17773
tnenamrep
srekroW
rekrow
srotceriD
tnednepednI
& eenimoN
.tvoG
sedulcxE*
)puorG
CPTN(
elfiorP
eeyolpmE
puorG
elbarenluV
latoT
puorG
egA
yllaicepS
TS/CS/CBO
delbA
elameF
elaM
05>
05-03
03<
seeyolpmE
seeyolpmE
eeyolpmE
elameF
elaM
elameF
elaM
elameF
elaM
elameF
elaM
elameF
elaM
elameF
elaM
seirogetaC srotceriD
fo draoB
0
0
0
0
0
6
0
6
0
0
0
0
*PMK
dna
roineS
/poT
0
6
0
0
5
56
5
36
0
2
0
0
tnemeganam
tnenamreP eeyolpme
elddiM
57
1461
3
25
712
0734
49
5981
321
5742
0
0
tnemeganam roinuJ/rewoL
763
4324
41
071
747
7597
98
7761
715
7005
141
3721
tnemeganam
tnenamreP
853
2423
74
782
456
3506
173
1713
822
3422
55
936
nemkroW
srekrow
puorG
CPTN
latoT
008
3219
46
905
3261
15481
955
2186
868
7279
691
2191
seeyolpmE
26
809
2
91
301
5141
0
0
31
911
09
6921
seeniarT
naht
rehtO
tnenamrep
83
133
0
6
19
907
0
31
71
873
47
813
seeyolpmE
eeyolpme naht
rehtO
lautcartnoC
4001
36483
31
594
9932
341021
292
27901
0571
00417
753
17773
tnenamrep
srekroW
rekrow
srotceriD
tnednepednI
& eenimoN
.tvoG
sedulcxE*
GRI 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover GRI 401-3 Parental leave related data for Financial Year 2023-24
Employees Hired during Financial Year 2023-24
S. No Category Unit Permanent Employees Permanent Workers
Age Group Total Male Female Male Female
Employee Categories <30 30-50 >50 1 Employees entitled for parental leave No. 11619 894 5378 444
Male Female
2 Employees that took parental leave No. 732 173 193 31
Male Female Male Female Male Female
Employees that returned to work in the
Board of Directors and Key 3 No. 732 173 193 31
0 0 0 1 2 0 2 1 reporting period after parental leave ended
Managerial Personnel
Employees that returned to work after parental
Top/ Senior management 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
4 leave ended that were still employed 12 No. 732 173 193 31
Middle management 0 0 1 2 2 0 3 2
months after their return to work
Lower/Junior management 40 7 169 12 1 0 210 19
5 Rate of Return to work that took parental leave % 100 100 100 100
Workmen 0 1 13 1 6 0 19 2
Retention rates of employees that took
6 % 100 100 100 100
Trainees 1321 91 76 7 0 0 1397 98 parental leave
Other than Permanent 229 39 210 4 0 0 439 43
Employees
GRI 405-2 Remuneration
Employees Separated during Financial Year 2023-24 Ratio of basic salary of women Ratio of total remuneration of
Employee Categories
to men women to men
Age Group Total
Board of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel 1 1
Employee Categories <30 30-50 >50
Male Female Top/ Senior management 1 1
Male Female Male Female Male Female
Middle management 1 1
Board of Directors and Key
0 0 0 0 3 0 3 0 Lower/Junior management 1 1
Managerial Personnel
Workmen 1 1
Top/ Senior management 0 0 0 0 34 0 34 0
Trainees 1 1
Middle management 0 0 9 0 341 14 350 14
Lower/Junior management 75 6 43 17 308 13 426 36 Other than Permanent Employees 1 1
Workmen 2 0 6 2 510 43 518 45
Trainees 137 7 8 0 0 0 145 7 GRI 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee**
Other than Permanent 75 19 32 1 1 0 108 20
Employees Employees Training for the year 2023-24
No. of employee Avg man hour per
Man hours
Turnover Rates for Employees Separated during Financial Year 2023-24 BRSR Categorisation Employee Categories trained employee
Male Female Male Female Male Female
Male Female total
Board of Directors and KMP 2 0 36 0 6 0
Permanent employee 6.55% 5.16% 6.45%
Total employee turnover rate % Top/ Senior management 54 3 1240 36 19 7
Permanent workers 8.56% 6.88% 8.39% Permanent employee
Middle management 3994 184 196014 9662 45 45
Voluntary employee turnover Permanent employee 6.53% 5.16% 6.43%
Lower/Junior management 6896 664 353432 35566 44 48
rate % Permanent workers 8.51% 6.88% 8.35%
Permanent workers Workmen 4469 392 109485 9780 18 15
Involuntary employee turnover Permanent employee 0.02% 0.00% 0.01%
rate % Permanent workers 0.05% 0.00% 0.04% Other than permanent Trainees 1029 81 183740 9294 130 90
employee Employees 409 68 14874 1452 21 16
** NTPC Group
138 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 139
Training on Human Rights * Training on Supply Chain*
BRSR Categorisation Employee Categories emp N lo u y m ee b s e c r o o v f e red Man-hours % covered Employee Categories No of employees wh t o r a a i t n t i e n n g d s ed skill development Average hours of training
Permanent employee Executive 923 6174 8.10% Male Female Male Female
Permanent workers Workmen 442 2730 8.21% Permanent employee 4 0 18 0
Trainees 190 1176 17.46% Permanent workers 0 0 0 0
Other than permanent employee
Employees 50 318 20.58% Total NTPC Employees 4 0 9 0
Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and
assist them in managing career endings*
Program for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance program*
Program name No. of employee trained Man hours Avg Man hour per employee
No of employees who attended skill development Advance Management Program 196 12858 65.60
Average hours of training
Employee Categories trainings
Enhancing Managerial competence 254 16818 66.21
Male Female Male Female
Foundation Course in
158 10848 68.66
Permanent employee 263 63 7.48 6.86 General Management
Permanent workers 113 113 8.39 9.43 Health Care and Ergonomics 670 4488 6.70
Total NTPC Employees 376 70 7.94 8.15 Healthy Mind in a Healthy Body 549 3630 6.61
Program for Health & Safety* Safety Training Modules
Induction
No of employees who attended skill development
Average hours of training
Employee Categories trainings 1 Caught in caught by 9 Fire Prevention 17 Ergonomics
Male Female Male Female 2 Heavy Vehicle Safety 10 Hot work General Safety and
18
Hygiene for Office
Permanent employee 3019 182 12.92 13.05 3 Work at Height 11 Work on or near water
19 Demolition
Permanent workers 1514 151 10.85 10.37 4 Electrical Safety 12 Work Permit System Module
20 Slips and Trips
Total NTPC Employees 4533 333 11.89 11.71 5 Confined Space 13 PPE
21A Material Handling
6 Struck by 14 Manual Handling
21B Material Handling 2
7 Hand tools 15 Excavation Safety
CHP Housekeeping Workers of
Training on Ethics, Bribery and Corruption* 22
8 Power tools 16 Hazardous Substances General Safety
No of employees who attended skill development
Average hours of training
Employee Categories trainings GRI 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system
Male Female Male Female
Safety Training for Financial Year 2023-24
Permanent employee 287 36 6.52 6.17
No. of Prog. Man hours No. of persons trained Avg man hour per employee
Permanent workers 48 3 6.38 6.00
Type FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY
Total NTPC Employees 335 39 6.45 6.09
2021-22 2022-23 2023-24 2021-22 2022-23 2023-24 2021-22 2022-23 2023-24 2021-22 2022-23 2023-24
* Only NTPC Regular Employees
Employees 1603 2484 1748 66198 132702 134446.77 11789 16224 17399 5.62 8.18 7.73
Contract
9701 29452 48486 1297452 2465392 4291683.682 214097 616348 1073434 6.06 4.00 4.00
Workers
Total 11304 31936 50234 1363650 2598094 4426130.452 225886 632572 1090833 6.04 4.11 4.06
* Only NTPC Regular Employees
140 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 141
Work-related injuries Enforcement of Safety aspects in Contracts and Procurement Aspects
Incidents The aforesaid minimum percentage shall be specified by the Package Coordinator (C&M executive handling the
No. of Persons employed Man hours Contract Package) based on the estimated value (without taxes and duties) of package as under:
First-Aid Beyond First-Aid
Type
FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY Minimum percentages to be specified for Safety
Packages having estimated value (excluding taxes and duties)
2021-22 2022-23 2023-24 2021-22 2022-23 2023-24 2021-22 2022-23 2023-24 2021-22 2022-23 2023-24
Aspects/Compliance to safety rules
Employees 18817 17995 16252 47423470 42439035 41134988 19 326 239 3 5 2
Supply cum Erection/Supply cum Erection cum Civil Packages
Contract
106662 89278 93101 264912380 222837888 232258633 400 0 4 35 15 13 More than ` 3,000 crore 1.00%
Workers
More than `1,000 crore but less than or equal to `300 crore 1.50%
Total 125479 107273 109353 312335850 265276923 273393621 419 326 243 38 20 15
More than ` 500 crore but less than or equal to ` 1,000 crore 2.00%
More than`100 crore but less than or equal to ` 500 crore 2.50%
Reportable Incidents
Less than or equal to ` 100 crore 5.00%
Total Man Days Lost
Type Fatal Non-Fatal
Civil Packages/Services Contracts
FY 2021-22 FY 2022-23 FY 2023-24 FY 2021-22 FY 2022-23 FY 2023-24 FY 2021-22 FY 2022-23 FY 2023-24
More than ` 100 crore but less than or equal to ` 500 crore 1%
Employees 1 1 0 3 5 3 6147 9183 114
Less than or equal to ` 100 crore 2%
Contract
4 4 5 18 11 15 36962 28718 144
Workers
GRI 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken
Total 5 5 5 21 16 18 43109 37901 258
GRI 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor
GRI 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory
Lost Time Injury Freqency
Fatality Frequency Rate Incident Rate (IR) Recordable Injury Rate
Rate (LTIFR) labor
Type
FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY
2021-22 2022-23 2023-24 2021-22 2022-23 2023-24 2021-22 2022-23 2023-24 2021-22 2022-23 2023-24 FY 2023-24
Employees 0.021 0.024 0.000 0.08 0.141 0.073 0.21 0.333 0.185 0.15 0.26 0.12 S. Cases reported Cases Pending
No. of cases reported /pending Unit
Contract No. No. of complaints filed during No. of complaints pending
0.015 0.018 0.022 0.08 0.067 0.086 0.21 0.168 0.215 0.22 0.13 0.14
Workers the FY 23-24 as on 31-03-2024
Total 0.016 0.019 0.018 0.08 0.079 0.084 0.21 0.196 0.210 0.20 0.15 0.14 1 Bribery & Corruption No. 0 0
2 Anti- competitive practice No. 0 0
No. of High Consequences Injuries Rate of High Consequences Injuries No. of Near Misses 3 Sexual Harassment No. 1 0
Type
FY 2021-22 FY 2022-23 FY 2023-24 FY 2021-22 FY 2022-23 FY 2023-24 FY 2021-22 FY 2022-23 FY 2023-24 4 Child Labour No. 0 0
Employees 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 0.00 5 Forced Labour/Involuntary Labour No. 0 0
Contract 2129 16225 21312 6 Wages No. 0 0
1 1 0 0.00 0.00 0.000
Workers
7 Discrimination at workplace No. 0 0
Total 1 1 0 0.00 0.00 0.000 2129 16225 21312
8 Other human rights related issues No. 0 0
Work-related ill health GRI 205 Number of bribery/ corruption cases
No.of cases of recordable
Fatalities due to ill health Occupational Disease Rate FY 2023-24
Type work-related ill health
FY 2021-22 FY 2022-23 FY 2023-24 FY 2021-22 FY 2022-23 FY 2023-24 FY 2021-22 FY 2022-23 FY 2023-24 S. Bribery & Corruption Cases Confirmed No. of people against
Unit Cases which disciplinary Action
No. cases related to Finalized after incidents of
Employees 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 reported was Taken by any law
investigation corruption.
Contract enforcement agency
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Workers 1 Employees- Executives No. 83 71 Nil Nil
Total 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
2 Employees-Non Executives No. 4 3 Nil Nil
3 Suppliers/ Vendors No. 19 17 Nil Nil
142 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 143
Task Force on Climate- World Economic Forum-
Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Stakeholder Capitalism Matrix
TCFD was established by the Financial Stability Board with the aim of developing a framework for companies to disclose information People
on their climate-related risks and opportunities. The task force is composed of representatives from financial institutions, businesses,
and other relevant stakeholders, who work together to provide recommendations and guidance on climate-related disclosures.
Theme Core Metric Key performance Indicator 2024 2023 Reference in report
NTPC recognizes that by following the TCFD recommendations, we can provide more transparent and consistent information to
Diversity and Inclusion Ratio of women to total employees 8.11% 8.15% Performance Snapshot
our investors, lenders, insurers, and other stakeholders about the climate-related risks and opportunities. TCFD will help enhance
Pay Equality Remuneration Equality 100% 100 %
our climate-related disclosures and improve the management and reporting of climate related risks, while facilitating our investors
Dignity and
towards informed decision-making and supports the transition to a more sustainable and low-carbon economy. Equality Wage Level CEO Pay Ratio Corporate Governance
Risk for incidents of child, Supply Chain Labor
100% 100% Human Rights
forced or compulsory labor Compliance Evaluation
Governance Strategy Fatal accidents 5 5 Human Capital
Health and Fatalities frequency rate 0.018 0.019
Health and Safety
NTPC’s has instituted governance systems and structures NTPC’s has form its Brighter Plan 2032 strategy to integrate Wellbeing "Life changing injury" 0 1
including the oversight of responsibilities with respect to and improve the overall ESG parameters across its operation. Life changing injury frequency rate 0.000 0.004
climate change risks at multiple levels ranging from operations In addition to this, we also undertake analysis of climate Average hours of training per
to Board of Directors: change impacts on NTPC’s all business segments. Skills for the Training Provided employee (hour/emp) 42 43 Performance Snapshot
future
Employees Training costs (`Cr) 54.82 42.82 Talent Management
• Oversight & Committees:
• For more details, please refer following sections:
• Board of Directors • Materiality Assessment at Page no. 32
• Board level CSR & Sustainability Committee • Natural Capital at Page no. 66
Planet
• Corporate level Sustainability Steering Committee • Financial Capital at Page no. 44
• Dedicated Departments:
• Sustainability Department Theme Core Metric Key performance Indicator 2024 2023 Reference in report
Direct Green House Gas
• CenPEEP - Centre for Power Efficiency & 352.47 335.72
emissions - Scope 1 (MMT)
• Environmental Protection Indirect Green House Gas Emission -
Scope 2 - Purchased electricity from 0.07 0.07
the Grid (Location Based) (MMT)
Climate Change Greenhouse Gas Emissions GHG Emissions
Indirect Green House Gas Emission -
Scope 2 - Purchased electricity from
Risk Metrics & Targets
the Grid (Market Based) (MMT)
Indirect Green House Gas
NTPC’s regularly assess the risk and impact over its operation NTPC’s understands that by accurately and timely disclosing Emission - Scope 3 (MMT) 3.26 4.36
and is cognizant of the Climate change and its associated metrics and targets, we can help our investors and stakeholders
TCFD Implementation TCFD
physical and transitional risks. in making informed decisions.
Biodiversity
Nature Loss Land Use and Ecological Sensitivity Hectares Restored - 20
• The same has been included in company’s overall risk NTPC has been periodically reporting annually its absolute and conservation
management framework. specific carbon emissions through Annual and Sustainability Water Consumption and
Water withdrawal (Mn m3) 6098.28 5753.36 Water
Reports. withdrawal in water stress area
• For more details, please refer following sections:
Fresh Water Water withdrawal in
For more details, please refer following sections: 98% 95.27%
• Risk Management at Page no. 36 Availability “Water stressed area”
• Natural Capital at Page no. 66 Total Fresh water
1,132.75 1,073.79
consumption (Mn m3)
Water Consumption in
92% 92%
water stressed area
144 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 145
Directors’ Report
PPeeoopplele
Dear Members, During the Financial Year 2023-24, our commitment to
sustainable energy solutions continued to lead our strategic
ThTehmemee CoCroer eM Meterticric KeKye yp eprefrofromrmanacnec eIn Idnidciactaotror 20220424 20220323 ReRfeefreernecnec ein i nre rpeoprotrt On behalf of the Board of Directors, it is our privilege to
initiatives. Adaptability and agility within our organizational
present the 48th Annual Report and 5th Integrated Annual
PePoepolpel eH Hireirded 2,22,32232 1,10,50353 PePreforfromrmanacnec eS nSanpasphsohtot structure enabled us to respond swiftly to market changes
Report of NTPC Limited (‘NTPC” or Company) for the Financial
AbAsbosloultuet en unmumbebre ar nadn d HHiriinrign gra rtaete 9.99.79%7% 4.48.48%4% Year ended 31st March 2024 along with Audited Standalone and opportunities.
rartaet eo fo ef memplpolyomymenetnt PePoepolpel eS eSpeapraartaetded 1,17,07505 1,17,87181 and Consolidated Financial Statements for the Financial Year The following is a summary of your Company’s exceptional
TuTrunronvoevrer 7.74.24%2% 8.81.91%9% ended 31st March 2024, the Auditors’ report, and comments performance, emphasizing the noteworthy achievements
of the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India on made in the reporting year.
EmEmplpolyomymenetn at nadn d DiDreircetc Et cEocnoonmomici cV aVlauleu e
- - - - FiFniannacniacila Cl aCpaiptaitlal the financial statements thereon.
WWeaelathlt hG Geneenreartaiotinon GeGneenreartaetde da nadn dD iDsitsritbriubtuetded
EcEocnoonmomici cC oCnotnritbriubtuiotinon
CoCnosnosloidliadtaetded
ToTtoatla Iln Ivnevsetsmtmenetn (t` (c`rc)r) 343,49,49343 353,52,02404
FiFniannacniacila Sl tSattaetmemenetnt
FiFniannacnicaila Iln Ivnevsetsmtmenetn t P uPrucrhcahsaes eo fo of wown ns hsahraerses
Major Highlights of your Company for the financial year 2023-24 are briefly mentioned here to give an
CoCnotnrtibriubtuiotinon DiDviivdiednednsd sp apiadid 7277227.25.050 7,70,3003.00.808
overview of accomplishments on all fronts:
InInnonvoavtaiotino nin i nb ebtettetre r InIvnevsetsmtmenetn itn i nre rseesaeracrhc ha nadn d
ToTtoatla Rl &RD& DE xEpxepnesnesses 48438.36.262 28238.34.545 InItnetlleelcletcutaula Cl aCpaiptaitlal
prpordoudcutcst sa nadn ds esrevrivciecses DeDveevleolpompmenetn (t` (c`rc)r) • Your Company at group level added 3,924 MW of commercial capacity to its portfolio. As on 31st March 2024,
the commercial capacity of your company stood at 59,078 MW on standalone basis and 75,958 MW on
CComommmunuintyit ya nadn d CoCnosnosloidliadtaetded
ToTtoatla Tl aTxa xP aPiadid ToTtoatla tla txa xp apiadi d(` (c`rc)r) 3634624.28.686 4047057.56.565 consolidated basis.
SoScoicaila Vl iVtaitlaitlyity FiFniannacniacila Sl tSattaetmemenetnt
• Your Company registered growth of 5% (Standalone) and 6% (at group level) in power generation.
• Average Plant Load Factor (PLF) of your Company’s coal stations was 77.25% as against the National Average of
GGoovveernrnaannccee 69.49%, a spread of 8%. 4 coal stations of NTPC viz. Korba, Singrauli, Vindhyachal and Rihand were among the
top 10 performing stations in the country in terms of PLF.
• Your Company’s captive coal production increased by 48% to 34.39 MMT.
ThTehmemee CoCroer eM Meterticric KeKye yp eprefrofromrmanacnec eIn Idnidciactaotror 20220424 20220323 ReRfeefreernecnec ein i nre rpeoprotrt • Your Company’s total Income was ` 1,65,707 crore and Profit After Tax (PAT) was ` 18,079 crore. Your Company’s
MManaangaegmemenetnt total Income at group level was ` 1,81,166 crore and PAT was ` 21,332 crore.
GGovoevrenrinnign gP uPrupropsoese PePoepolpel eH Hireirded didscisucsussiosino na nadn d • Your Company received dividend income of ` 1,639 crore from all its Subsidiary and Joint Venture Companies.
AnAanlayslyissis
• Your company successfully commissioned an operational Renewable Energy (RE) capacity of 3.5 GW and the
QQuaulaitlyit yo fo f GGovoevrenrannacnec eb obdoyd y
WWomomene nin i nB OBDOD 11 11 PePreforfromrmanacnec eS nSanpasphsohtot total RE capacity in the pipeline exceeds 24 GW.
GGovoevrenrinnign gB oBdoydy cocmompopsoistiiotinon
• For ensuring a substantial reduction in SOx emissions, 66.8 GW capacity of Flue Gas Desulfurization (FGD)
StSatkaekheohlodledre r
MMataetreiarila Ils Issuseuse sim impapcatcintign g projects have been undertaken, out of which 8.9 GW is already commissioned.
StSatkaekheohlodledre Er nEgnaggaegmemenetnt EnEgnaggaegmemenetn at nadn d
stsatkaekheohlodledresrs
mmataetreiarilaitlyit ay naanlayslyissis • Your Company successfully conducted first-ever Biomass Pellet auction through a digital marketplace selected
EmEmplpolyoeyeese sw whoh ore rceecievievde d through a Startup India Grand Innovation Challenge for the consistent supply of biomass pellets for co-firing in
EtEhtihciacla Bl eBheahvaivoiror AnAtni-tCi-oCrorrurputpiotinon tratrianiinnign ga baobuotu at natni-tci-ocrorurrputpiotino n 373474 2,25,85181 PePreforfromrmanacnec eS nSanpasphsohtot power plants and resulted in a significant seller response.
poploicliiceise sa nadn dp rporcoecdeudruerses
• Your Company achieved a new milestone by successfully and safely demonstrating co-firing of 20% torrefied
AsAcsecretartianiende d biomass in Unit #4 Stage-I of NTPC Tanda Plant on 30th March 2024. The initiative is the first of its kind in the
vivoiloaltaiotinosn sre rlealtaetde dto t o 00 00 ViVgiiglailnacnece
Indian power sector, which may go a long way in decarbonising the existing coal-fired fleet and achieving the
PrPortoetcetcetde dE tEhtihcisc sa davdivciec e cocnofnlifclitc ot fo ifn itnetreersets ct ocrorurrputpiotinon
anadn dre rpeoprotrintign gm mecehcahnainsimsmss Net Zero Emission targets.
ReRpeoprotsrt sre rceecievievde dre rlealtaetde dto t o
00 00 • Your Company has been certified as a Top Employer in India by the Brandon Hall Group and has also been
ViVoiloaltaiotino no fo tfh teh ec ocdoed eo fo ef tehtihciscs
conferred with the various prestigious award like “Sportstar Ace Award -2024” in the category “Best PSU for the
InItnetgergartaintign gri srikssk s
RRisiks ka nadn dO Opppoprotrutnuintyit y promotion of Sports” for contributing significantly to Archery Sport in the Country and the “Excellence in
anadn do poppoprotrutnuintyit yin itnot o RiRskis Mk Manaangaegmemenetnt
OOvevresrisgihgtht Corporate Social Responsibility” award in the prestigious 18th CII-ITC Sustainability Awards 2023.
bubsuisniensess sp rporcoecsesss
14164 6 | |I n Itnetgergartaetde dA Annnunaula Rl Repeoprotr t- 2- 022032-32-424 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 147
1. FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS: the Companies Act, 2013 is included under AOC-1 in the 2017 advised that the Top 500 listed companies, which are
````` Crore consolidated financial statements. The detailed financial required to prepare a Business Responsibility and
results are available in the Financial Statement section of the Sustainability Report (BRSR), may consider using integrated
Financial Results Standalone Consolidated
report under the Standalone Financial Statement and reporting framework for annual reporting.
Particulars 2023-24 2022-23 2023-24 2022-23 Consolidated Financial Statement.
Your Company being one of the top 500 companies in the
Income Country in terms of market capitalization, has voluntarily
3. ISSUE OF SECURITIES/CHANGES IN SHARE CAPITAL
Revenue from operations (including energy sales, 1,61,985.03 1,63,769.77 1,78,500.88 1,76,207.18 provided Integrated Report, which encompasses both
sale of energy through trading, consultancy fee etc.) During the financial year 2023-24, the Company issued 7.35% financial and non-financial information to enable the
NTPC Series-80 - 2026 Unsecured, Non-Cumulative, Non- Members to take well informed decisions and have a better
Other income 3,722.24 3,954.64 2,664.98 1,769.21
Convertible Redeemable Debentures of face value of understanding of the Company’s long-term perspective. This
Total income 1,65,707.27 1,67,724.41 1,81,165.86 1,77,976.39
`1,00,000 each aggregating to ` 3,000 crore and 7.48% NTPC Report also touches upon aspects such as organization’s
Expenses Series-81 - 2026 Unsecured, Non-Cumulative, Non- strategy, governance framework, performance and prospects
Convertible Redeemable Debentures of face value of of value creation based on the six forms of capital viz. financial
Fuel cost 94,037.49 96,851.50 98,311.96 1,00,655.78
`1,00,000 each aggregating to ` 1,500 crore on private capital, manufactured capital, intellectual capital, human
Electricity purchased for trading 3,881.66 3,656.26 5,682.79 5,324.95
placement basis. The funds were utilized for the purpose for capital, social and relationship capital and natural capital.
Employee benefits expense 5,670.10 5,559.03 6,592.03 6,528.34 which they were raised, and there were no deviations or
Finance costs 10,250.82 9,979.23 12,048.21 11,156.06 variations in the utilization. 6. PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment expenses 13,943.15 13,136.71 16,203.63 14,792.27 6.1 Operational Performance
4. DIVIDEND
Other expenses 15,213.43 14,474.59 16,821.39 15,968.17 During the financial year 2023-24, your Company added 2,930
For the financial year 2023-24, your company has paid first &
Total expenses 1,42,996.65 1,43,657.32 1,55,660.01 1,54,425.57 MW (2,782 MW added in FY 2022-23) to its installed capacity.
second interim dividends of ` 2,181.75 crore each (at the
With this, installed capacity of your company stands as 59,078
Profit before exceptional items, tax, regulatory 22,710.62 24,067.09 25,505.85 23,550.82 rate of ` 2.25 per share) in the month of November 2023
MW as on 31st March 2024 (56,368 MW as on 31st March
deferral account balances and Share of profit of and February 2024, respectively. Furthermore, the Board of
2023). At group level, 3,924 MW added to its installed capacity
Joint ventures accounted for using equity method Directors has recommended to pay a final dividend of
and Group capacity stands as 75,958 MW as on 31st March
Share of profits of joint ventures accounted for using - - 1,635.60 779.77 ` 3,151.42 crore (at the rate of ` 3.25 per share) which shall 2024 (72,254 MW as on 31st March 2023)
equity method be declared subject to approval of Shareholders at the
ensuing Annual General Meeting (AGM). With the proposed With the installed capacity of 59,078 MW (75,958 MW
Profit before exceptional items, tax and regulatory 22,710.62 24,067.09 27,141.45 24,330.59
final dividend, the total dividend payout shall be ` 7,514.92 including JVs, Subsidiaries & Foreign JVs), your Company
deferral account balances
crore (at the rate of ` 7.75 per share). This is the 31st achieved the record power generation of 361.7 BUs (422.22
Exceptional Items 834.55 - - - consecutive year of dividend declaration by your company BUs including JVs & Subsidiaries) during financial year 2023-
Profit before tax and regulatory deferral 23,545.17 24,067.09 27,141.45 24,330.59 with dividend payout ratio during the last five year as under: 24, which translates to a Y-o-Y growth of 4.91%. Generation
account balances at group level was 422 billion units in the financial year 2023-
S.No. Financial Year Dividend Pay-out Ratio
24 as compared to 399 billion units in in the financial year
Tax expense 6,600.03 6,279.27 6,809.20 6,796.12
1 2023-24 41.57% 2022-23, representing a 5.74 % year-over-year growth.
Profit for the year before regulatory deferral 16,945.14 17,787.82 20,332.25 17,534.47
2 2022-23 40.88% During financial year 2023-24, average Plant Load Factor (PLF)
account balances
of NTPC coal stations was 77.25% as against the National
3 2021-22 42.13%
Net movement in regulatory deferral account 1,134.25 (591.09) 1,000.20 (413.12)
Average of 69.49%, a spread of ~8%. 4 coal stations of NTPC
balances (net of tax) 4 2020-21 43.31% viz. Korba, Singrauli, Vindhyachal and Rihand were among
Profit for the year 18,079.39 17,196.73 21,332.45 17,121.35 5 2019-20 30.82% the top 10 performing stations in the country in terms of
Dividend paid during the year 7,272.50 7,030.08 7419.43* 7247.91* PLF.
In terms of Regulation 43A of the Securities and Exchange
(* includes dividend of non-controlling interest) Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 6.2 Commercial Capacity
Earning per share-(basic and diluted) (in `) (including 18.64 17.73 21.46 17.44 Requirements) Regulations, 2015, (‘SEBI (LODR) Regulations, During the financial year 2023-24, your Company achieved
net movement in deferral account balances) 2015’), the Board of the Company has formulated a Dividend significant growth by adding 2,930 MW of commercial
Earning per share-(basic and diluted) (in `) (excluding 17.48 18.34 20.43 17.87 Distribution Policy. The policy is available on the website of capacity. This expansion boosted your Company's total
net movement in deferral account balances) the Company at: commercial capacity to an impressive 59,078 MW.
https://ntpc.co.in/sites/default/files/inline-files/DividendDistributionPolicyofNTPCLimited.pdf Additionally, when considering the collective efforts of your
2. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL RESULTS subsidiaries, joint venture entities, and associate companies, company and its joint ventures, the aggregate commercial
5. INTEGRATED REPORT
which forms part of the Integrated Report. capacity was further augmented by 3,924 MW resulting in
In accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2013,
Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) vide circular an overall commercial capacity of 75,958 MW as per detail
and the Accounting Standards issued by the Institute of A statement containing the salient feature of the financial
no. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CIR/P/2017/10 dated 6th February given below:-
Chartered Accountants of India, the Company has prepared statement of your Company’s Subsidiaries, Associate and Joint
the Consolidated Financial Statement for the group, including Ventures Companies as per first proviso of section 129(3) of
148 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 149
In addition to above, in order to make monitoring of projects (ICOMIT). In line with this, your Company has taken up several equipping personnel with managerial and leadership
Description Capacity (MW)
more effective, Your Company is now adopting an Integrated initiatives targeting its external customers. Customer skills.
Owned by your company
Software monitoring tool for integrating progress of Relationship Management (CRM) and Customer Satisfaction
The details of the various initiatives taken by your company
Coal based projects 53,850 Engineering, Supplies and Erection at one place, and Index (CSI) are two important aspects of this program. As
for strengthening its customer relationships is available in
Gas based projects 4,017 capturing progress online. Features like mobile app based part of the CRM, your Company has been implementing the Social Capital section of the report, on the page no. 100.
updation of progress and role-based access make the tool several structured activities with the objective of sharing its
Renewable Energy Projects 411
more user-friendly which will result into regular updation of experiences and best practices with the customers, capturing
(Including Singrauli small hydro) 6.7 Capacity Expansion Program
progress. It will help in taking timely remedial actions. This their feedback and expectations, and also addressing their
Hydro Projects 800 tool has been included in the bid documents of EPC packages issues. Some of these activities are described below: 6.7.1 Projects under Implementation:
of upcoming projects of your company and included in
Sub-total 59,078 • Your Company has established a Customer Satisfaction Various projects of your Company having aggregate capacity
recently awarded projects.
Joint Ventures & Subsidiaries Index (CSI) Survey scheme, to gather the feedback from of 20,245 MW including 12,560 MW being undertaken by
In a changing global scenario, your company has added customer through a survey and respond to their Joint Venture and Subsidiary companies are under
Coal based projects 8,344 various other project management tools which are Online requirements. This CSI survey was conducted in financial implementation. Total Capacity under Construction comprises
Gas based projects 2,494 CAPEX monitoring system/ Digital Hindrance register/ Digital year 2023-24 and the score falls under Excellent category. of 9,560 MW of Coal (Including 3,720 MW being undertaken
(Including NEEPCO-527 MW) Chronology register/Issue Monitoring System etc. by Joint Venture and subsidiary companies), 2,255 MW of
• To further strengthen customer relationships, your
Hydro (Including 1,444 MW being undertaken by Joint
Hydro Projects of THDCL (1,424 MW) 2,925 6.4 Billing and Realisation Company has sponsored 12 officials of beneficiaries /
Venture and subsidiary companies) and 8,430 MW of
& NEEPCO (1525 MW) Discoms to the PGDM (Executive) program of the NTPC
During financial year 2023-24, your Company has successfully Renewable projects (Including 7,396 MW being undertaken
School of Business in the financial year 2023-24. This
Renewable Energy Projects including 3,117 realized 100% of its dues. The target set by the Government by subsidiary company). The details of such projects are as
initiative aims to build capacity in the power sector by
THDCL (163 MW) & NEEPCO (5 MW) of India (GoI), for realization of dues for energy supply in the under:
financial year 2023-24 has also been achieved. Most of the
Sub-total 16,880 Ongoing Projects as on 31.03.2024 State Capacity (MW)
beneficiaries have made timely payments and availed the
Total 75,958* applicable rebates. I Owned by your company
I. (A) Coal Based Projects
*220 MW (2x110 MW) at Barauni has been retired from Your Company has in place a robust payment security
Commercial as well as installed capacity of your company mechanism in the form of Letters of Credit (LC) backed by Barh-I (3x660 MW)* Bihar 660
w.e.f 31.03.2024 hence excluded. the Tri-Partite Agreement (TPA) signed amongst the State North Karanpura (3x660 MW)* Jharkhand 660
Government(s), Government of India (GoI) and Reserve Bank
6.3 Project Management Talcher-III (2x660 MW) Odisha 1320
of India (RBI). As per the TPA, any default in payment by the
Lara-II (2x800 MW) Chhattisgarh 1600
Your Company has adopted an integrated system for the State owned Discoms can be recovered directly from the
planning, scheduling, monitoring and controlling of approved State’s account in RBI. The TPAs signed during the FY2000- Singrauli-III (2x800 MW) Uttar Pradesh 1600
projects under implementation. To co-ordinate and 01 were valid up to 31st October 2016. Subsequently these Sub Total (A) 5,840
synchronize all the support functions of project management, TPAs have been extended for a further period of 10 to 15 I. (B) Hydro Electric Power Projects (HEPP)
the Issuer relies on a three-tiered project management years. Tapovan Vishnugad (4x130 MW) Uttarakhand 520#
system known as the Integrated Project Management Control
As of now, 29 out of total 31 States/UTs have signed the TPAs Lata Tapovan (3x57 MW) Uttarakhand 171@
System (IPMCS), which integrates its engineering
extension documents. The signing of TPAs extension by Rammam Hydro (3x40 MW) West Bengal 120
management, contract management and construction
management control centers. The IPMCS addresses all stages remaining States is being taken up. Sub Total (B) 811
of project implementation, from concept to commissioning. 6.5 Power Trading in Power Exchange I. (C) Renewable Energy Projects
Your Company has established a state-of-the-art IT enabled Your Company has been participating in both the Integrated Anta Rajasthan 90
Project Monitoring Centre (PMC) for facilitating fast track Day Ahead Market (I-DAM) and the Real Time Market (RTM) Nokh Rajasthan 735
project implementation. PMC has advanced features like for selling any un-requisitioned surplus (URS) in the Power Rihand UP 20
Project Review and Internal Monitoring System (PRIMS), etc. Exchange through its trading arm- NTPC Vidyut Vyapar Nigam
Solapur Maharashtra 13
PMC facilitates monitoring of key project milestones and also Limited (NVVN). Besides selling the URS power, it has also
Ramagundam Telangana 176
acts as decision support system for the management. been selling any regulated power, merchant power,
Sub-Total (C) 1,034
relinquished gas power, infirm power in the Power Exchanges.
PMC is an integrated enterprise-wide collaborative system
In the financial year 2023-24, a record 3,278 million units of Total Projects under construction by Your Company (I.A+I.B+I.C) 7,685
to facilitate consolidation of project related issues and their
power worth of ` 1,774 crore has been sold in the various II Projects under JVs & Subsidiaries
resolution. Features like real time video capture, storage and
segment of power exchanges by your Company. II (A) Coal Based Projects
retrieval facility and video conference facility are extensively
Corresponding gains for this sale have been shared with the
utilized for project tracking, issues resolutions and Patratu STPP, Stage-I (3 x800 MW) under JV with JBVNL Jharkhand 2,400
beneficiaries as per the extant regulatory provisions.
management interventions. PMC has helped in providing THDCL - Khurja (2x660 MW) Uttar Pradesh 1,320
effective coordination between the agencies and has 6.6 Strengthening Customer Relationship Sub Total (A) 3,720
provided enhanced/ efficient monitoring of the projects
Customer focus is one of the core values of your Company
leading to better and faster project implementation.
150 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 151
In addition to furthering Capacity Addition through Coal year 2023-24. NTPC Green Energy Limited, Wholly Owned
Ongoing Projects as on 31.03.2024 State Capacity (MW)
based power projects, your Company has been pursuing Subsidiary of your Company, is currently focused on
II (B) Hydro Projects
enhancement of its power generation portfolio through developing an impressive 14,300 MW of renewable energy
THDCL -Tehri PSP Uttarakhand 1,000 Hydro and Renewable Energy projects. Your company has portfolio expansion.
THDCL – Vishnugad Pipalkoti Uttarakhand 444 been actively seeking ways to enhance its capacity through
The details of the same is available in the Manufacturing
diversified fuel mix with a goal to achieve 130 GW of installed
Sub Total (B) 1,444 Capital and Intellectual capital section of the report on page
capacity by 2032 and has developed a capacity expansion
II (C) Renewable Projects no. 50 & 120 respectively.
strategy for the same. Out of the 130 GW, your company aims
a) NGEL
to add 60 GW of renewable energy capacity by 2032, with 6.7.2 Capacity addition through Subsidiaries and Joint
Shambhu Ka Burj-II Rajasthan 150 renewable energy sources constituting nearly 50% of overall Ventures (JVs):
Ayodhya Uttar Pradesh 26 power generation capacity. The objective is to accelerate the
Besides adding capacities on its own, your Company develops
renewable energy growth of your company and increase the
Sub-total (a) 176 power projects through its subsidiary and joint venture
green footprint across the country, offshore, and overseas.
b) NTPC REL Companies, both in India and abroad. The information of
In the financial year 2023-24, your Company installed 2,930 Indian Subsidiaries and JV (Joint Ventures) Companies along
Bhensada Rajasthan 320
MW of capacity. On the group level your Company achieved with details of partners of Joint Venture Companies engaged
Bhadla-II Rajasthan 500
an overall capacity addition of 3,924 MW during the financial in power generation is given below:
Shajapur MP 325
Name of Company JV Partner(s) Details
Kankachiyala, Rupakheda, Sadla Gujarat 200
(in case of JV)
Limbdi, Mesanka, Radhanpur Gujarat 150
NTPC Green A wholly owned NGEL was incorporated on 7th April 2022. Under approved Asset Monetization
Khavda-I Gujarat 1,255
Energy Ltd. (NGEL) subsidiary of Scheme for monetization of Renewable Energy (RE) Assets, NTPC transferred 15
Khavda-II Gujarat 1,200 NTPC. RE assets aggregating 2,861 MW (previously on NTPC’s balance sheet), to NGEL
Khavda-III Gujarat 300 through a Business Transfer Agreement and also transferred its stake in NTPC
Renewable Energy Limited (NREL) to NGEL through a Share Purchase Agreement
Nakhatrana Gujarat 300
on 28th February 2023.
Dayapar-I Gujarat 100
NGEL is undertaking large Solar, Wind and Hybrid Projects all over the country
Dayapar-II Gujarat 200
and developing Gigawatt scale Renewable Energy Parks and Projects in different
Dayapar-III Gujarat 150
states under Ultra Mega Renewable Energy Power Park (UMREPP) scheme of
Jamjodhpur, Jamnagar Gujarat 546 Government of India.
Vanki, Kachchh Gujarat 156 In addition to this, Green Hydrogen based Mobility projects are also being
Sub-total (b) 5,702 pursued.
c) INGEL The total commissioned capacity is 2,925 MW and 6,596 MW is under
Bhuj Gujarat 600 construction. In FY 2023-24, total generation by NGEL was 5.74 BUs.
Kalyanpur, Dwarka Gujarat 308 North Eastern Electric A wholly owned NEEPCO was 100% GOI held Mini-Ratna Category I Central Public Sector
Power Corporation subsidiary of Enterprise. Your Company executed a Share Purchase Agreement with GoI and
Sub-total (c) 908
Limited (NEEPCO) NTPC. acquired 100% equity stake in NEEPCO on 27th March 2020.
d) GVREL
NEEPCO is primarily engaged in the business of generation and sale of electricity
Tilaya Jharkhand 155
in the north-eastern region of India. NEEPCO operates 6 Hydro, 3 Gas and 1
Panchet I Jharkhand 75
solar power stations with a combined installed capacity of 2,057 MW.
Panchet II Jharkhand 80
During FY 2023-24, NEEPCO generated 8000.87 MU with 41.89 % PLF for Hydro
Sub-total (d) 310 and 64.75 % PLF for Gas plants and availability factor of 88.60% for Hydro and
e) NEEPCO Anywhere in India 300 72.76% for Gas plants. NEEPCO paid dividend of ` 250 crore for FY 2023-24 to
your Company.
Sub Total (C) = [a+b+c+d] 7,396
Bhartiya Rail Bijlee Ministry of BRBCL is a subsidiary of your Company (74%) and a Joint venture Company with
Total II (A)+(B)+(C) 12,560
Company Ltd. Railways Ministry of Railways, Government of India (26%). Presently, it is setting up power
Total On-Going Projects as on 31.03.2024 (I)+(II) 20,245
(BRBCL) project of 1,000 MW (4X250 MW) capacity at Nabinagar in Bihar. All units are
*Two units are already commissioned and under commercial operation. under commercial operation.
Note: During FY 2023-24, BRBCL generated 6944.42 MU at PLF 79.06% and 91.57%
1. @Work of Lata Tapovan HEPP stopped as per orders of the Hon’ble Supreme Court dated 07.05.2014. Availability Factor.
2. # Construction work stopped at site w.e.f. 05.01.2023 as per order of Distt Admin (ADM, Joshimath). BRBCL paid a dividend of ` 277.50 crore for FY 2023-24 to your Company.
152 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 153
Name of Company JV Partner(s) Details Name of Company JV Partner(s) Details
(in case of JV) (in case of JV)
NTPC- SAIL Power Steel Authority NSPCL is a Joint Venture between your Company (50%) and Steel Authority of Patratu Vidyut Jharkhand Bijli PVUNL is a subsidiary of your Company (74%) and a joint venture with Jharkhand
Co. Ltd. (NSPCL) of India Ltd. India Ltd (SAIL) (50%). It owns and operates at a capacity of 1,104 MW Captive Utpadan Nigam Vitran Nigam Bijli Vitaran Nigam Ltd (26%). PVUNL plans to set up 4,000 MW Coal-based power
(SAIL) Power Plants of SAIL at Durgapur (2x20+2x60 MW), Rourkela (1x250+ 2x60 MW) Limited (PVUNL) Limited (JBVNL) projects in two phases. PVUNL is currently executing its Phase-I expansion project
and Bhilai (2x250+2x 30 + 1x14 MW). with a capacity of 2,400 MW (3 X 800 MW) along with Banhardih Captive Coal
Mine.
During FY 2023-24, NSPCL generated 6983.83 MU at 73.33% PLF and 92.36%
Availability Factor.
THDC India Ltd. Government of THDC India Ltd. was a joint venture of the Government of India (74.496%) and
NSPCL has paid dividend of ` 75 crore for FY 2023-24 to your Company.
Uttar Pradesh the Government of Uttar Pradesh (25.504%) and a Mini-Ratna Category-I CPSE.
NTPC Tamil Tamilnadu NTECL is a Joint Venture between your Company (50%) and Tamil Nadu
Your Company executed a Share Purchase Agreement with GoI and acquired
Nadu Energy Co. Generation and Generation and Distribution Corporation Limited (50%). It has commissioned
74.496% equity stake in THDCIL on 27th March 2020. THDC is now a subsidiary
Ltd. (NTECL) Distribution 3x500 MW coal-based power project at Vallur, Tamil Nadu.
Company of NTPC.
Corporation
During FY 2023-24. NTECL generated 6623 MUs at 50.27 % PLF and 63.57%
Limited Presently, THDCIL has a portfolio of 9 projects (Hydro, Thermal, Wind & Solar),
Availability Factor.
(TANGEDCO) with a total capacity of 4,351 MW comprising of 1,587 MW operational plants
NTECL paid ` 275.21 crore as dividend in FY 2023-24 to your Company. and 2,764 MW are under construction projects and balance under feasibility
Aravali Power Indraprastha APCPL is a Joint venture of your Company (50%) & Indraprastha Power studies.
Company Pvt. Ltd. Power Generation Company Ltd. (25%) and Haryana Power Generation Corporation Cumulative generation of THDC for FY 2023-24 is 4830.6 MU at Cumulative PAF
(APCPL) Generation Ltd (25%). Presently. It is operating 3x500 MW coal-based Indira Gandhi Super (Tehri HPP & KEHP): 77.20%. Cumulative CUF of Wind Power Plants: 21.83%.
Company Ltd. Thermal Power Project.
CUF of Kasargod SPP: 23.05% & PLF of Dhukwan Small Hydro Electric Project:
(IPGCL) and
During FY 2023-24, APCPL generated 8284.82 MU at 62.88% PLF and 93.68% 35.53%. THDCIL has paid ` 351.21 crore as dividend in FY 2023-24 to your
Haryana Power
Availability factor. Company.
Generation
Corporation Ltd. APCPL has paid dividend of ` 375 crore for FY 2023-24 to your company. Jhabua Secured Jhabua Power Ltd (JPL) is your Company’s first acquisition through National
(HPGCL). Power Ltd. (JPL) Financial Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) route. JPL is a Joint Venture between your
Meja Urja Nigam Uttar Pradesh MUNPL is a Joint venture of your Company and Uttar Pradesh Rajya Vidyut Creditors Company (50%) and Secured Financial Creditors (50%) with an operational coal
Pvt. Ltd. (MUNPL) Rajya Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Ltd. (UPRVUNL) with equity shareholding in the ratio of 50:50. fired thermal power plant of 1 x 600 MW capacity located in Seoni, Madhya
Utpadan MUNPL commissioned 1,320 MW (2x660 MW) coal-based power project in Uttar Pradesh.
Nigam Ltd. Pradesh. SJVA-1 signed on 13.09.2023 for the establishment of MUNPL Stage-II During FY 2023-24, JPL generated 3597.02 MUs at 68.25% PLF and 93.14%
(UPRVUNL) units, Obra-D 2x800 MW & Anpara-E 2x800 MW units. Availability Factor.
During FY 2023-24, MUNPL generated 8275.82 MU at 71.37% PLF and 87.77%
6.8 Strategic Diversification techno-commercial due diligence of overseas Uranium assets
Availability Factor.
for possible acquisition. In the meanwhile, DAE has asked to
Ratnagiri Gas and MSEB Holding RGPPL owns and operates Gas Based Power Project of 1,967 MW (1x640 MW + In order to strengthen its competitive advantage in power
include NPCIL in this MOU, same is under process with UCIL
Power Pvt. Ltd.(RGPPL) Co. Ltd. 2x663.5 MW) in Ratnagiri district of Maharashtra. Your Company’s shareholding generation business, your Company has diversified its
in RGPPL is 86.49%. portfolio to emerge as an integrated power major, with a. The details of Subsidiary Companies engaged in
presence across entire power value chain through backward business other than in power generation are as under:
During FY 2023-24, RGPPL generated 1228.07 MU at 7.11 % PLF and 52.46 %
and forward integration into areas such as coal mining, power
NTPC Vidyut Vyapar Nigam Limited (NVVN), a wholly owned
Availability Factor.
equipment manufacturing & power trading distribution. Your
subsidiary, is engaged in the business of power trading. NVVN
Company continuously explores business opportunities
has a trading License under Category I (highest category). It
through market scanning and adopts new business plans
Anushakti Vidyut Nuclear Power ASHVINI is a joint venture company of your company (49%) and NPCIL (51%). undertakes sale and purchase of electric power, to effectively
accordingly.
Nigam Ltd. (ASHVINI) Corporation of The JV company was formed to set up Nuclear Power Project as may be mutually utilize installed capacity and thus enable reduction in the cost
India Ltd. discussed and agreed between the parties, subject to establishment of techno- During the financial year 2023-24, NTPC board has cleared of power. NVVN has been nominated as the Settlement Nodal
(NPCIL) commercial viability. the proposal of formation of wholly owned subsidiary of NTPC Agency (SNA) for settlement of Grid operation related charges
for nuclear energy business. Development of SMR can be with neighboring countries, namely, Bangladesh, Bhutan,
Supplementary Joint Venture Agreement (JVA) was signed between NTPC and
done either indigenously with BARC or through foreign Nepal and Myanmar. NVVN is undertaking various other
NPCIL on 1st May 2023 subject to approval of Department of Atomic Energy
collaboration. Subsidiary company may go for Business activities such as e-mobility segment including
(DAE) to align JVA in line with Atomic Energy (Amendment) Act, 2016 so that
implementation of large reactors either through collaboration providing vehicles and related services in various vehicle
ASHVINI can initiate the process for setting up of nuclear power projects.
with foreign technology partners (PWR/EPR etc.) or segments, Roof top Solar, Waste to Wealth etc. Under E-
Chutka Madhya Pradesh Atomic Power Project (2x700MW) & Mahi Banswara implementation of FBR with IGCAR. For Nuclear fuel tie-up, mobility project of NVVN, 90 number of E- buses in Bengaluru
(4x700MW) Rajasthan Nuclear Power Projects of NPCIL are identified for transfer NTPC board has approved the draft MOU with UCIL for joint & 40 number of E-buses in Andaman are under commercial
to ASHVINI.
154 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 155
operation. The first MSW to Charcoal plant at Varanasi of commercial coal block of North Dadhu (Eastern Part) through Name of Company JVPartner(s) Activities Undertaken
600 TPD (tons per day) capacity was inaugurated by Hon’ble competitive bidding held on 02nd August 2023. Vesting order
NGSL (NTPC GE GE Power India NTPC GE Power System GmbH is a 50:50 Joint Venture between your company
Prime Minister on 23.02.2024 and Contracts awarded to EPCs issued by MoC on 14th Dec 2023. Geological report submitted
Power Services Limited (GEPIL) and GE Power India Ltd (erstwhile Power Systems GmbH) and formed for taking
for MSW to charcoal Projects at NOIDA-GNIDA (900 TPD), to MoC on 10th April 2024. Other Development activities such
Private Limited) up R&M jobs of Coal based Power plants in India. GE Power System GmbH has
Bhopal (400 TPD), Hubballi (200 TPD), and Gorakhpur (500 as DGPS Survey, Environment Clearance, Forest Clearance,
transferred its entire stake to its affiliate GE Power India in April 2021.
TPD). In addition, NVVN has started trading of gas for NTPC Preparation of Mining Plan, Collection of land revenue
stations in IGX from 31st October 2023. During the financial records etc. are under progress. NGSL has diversified to take up new business assignments in the areas of FGD,
year 2023-24, NVVN traded 35 billion units (BUs). Ash Utilization, O&M, WTE and RE.
During the financial year 2023-24 Mine Developer cum
As of 31st March 2024, the paid-up equity share capital of Operator (MDO) contract is awarded for Badam & Talaipalli Energy Efficiency Power Grid In the JV Company, your Company has a stake of 39.25%. The JV company has
the Company amounted to ` 30 crore. NVVN paid a dividend (East Pit). With this all 6 NTPC coal mining projects (Total Services Ltd. Corporation of been formed on 10th December 2009 under the name “Energy Efficiency Services
of ` 25.20 crore for the financial year 2023-24. PRC- 70 MMT) are now having MDO contracts. During (EESL) India Limited Limited” with Power Finance Corporation Ltd., PowerGrid Corporation of India
financial year 2023-24, it registered a stellar performance with (PGCIL), Power Ltd. and Rural Electrification Corporation Ltd. to carry on and promote the
NTPC Electric Supply Company Limited (NESCL), a wholly
coal production of 34.39 MMT & dispatch of 34.15 MMT, Finance business of energy efficiency and climate change, including manufacture and
owned subsidiary, was incorporated for the distribution
demonstrating exponential YoY growth of 48.21 % & 55.50% Corporation supply of energy efficiency services and products.
business and later started deposit and consultancy works.
respectively. All 5 operational coal mines exceeded their coal (PFC) and The Company is taking up different energy efficiency improvement related works
Although currently, NESCL does not have any business
production targets individually. REC Limited like replacement of normal bulbs with LED bulbs, Street Light National
operations in retail distribution, the same will be taken up at
Programme (SLNP), & other new business areas like Electric Vehicle (EV), Electric
an appropriate time when the opportunity becomes visible. Integrated Coal Management System (ICMS) has been
Charging Infrastructure, Smart meters etc.
implemented first time in NTPC, in PB CMP, Dulanga CMP, TL
NTPC Mining Limited (NML), a wholly owned subsidiary, was
CMP & CB CMP. Geo Fencing track of dumper movement National High Power NHPC Limited, The JV Company was formed to establish a research and test facility for the
incorporated on 29th August 2019 for handling its mining
system has been implemented in Pakri Barwadih, Talaipalli Test Laboratory Power Grid power sector such as “Online High-Power Test Laboratory” for short circuit testing
business. It is expected that this arrangement would result
and Chatti Bariatu CMPs. Further implementation of system Pvt. Ltd. (NHPTL) Corporation of facility for transformers.HVTR test Laboratory set up at Bina, M.P. was declared
in timely development of mines with efficient handling of
in other mines is under progress. India Limited Commercial w.e.f. 1st July 2017.Due to challenging financial condition of NHPTL,
contracts by dedicated team. This will ultimately achieve
(PGCIL), Damodar meeting regarding way forward for revival of NHPTL was held on 15th September
substantial efficiency and increased competitiveness. NTPC NTPC EDMC Waste Solutions Private Limited (NEWS), a JV
Valley 2022 under the Chairmanship of Secretary (Power) and proposed revival plan
and NML signed a Business Transfer Agreement (BTA) on 17th Company with East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) was
Corporation was accepted by all Promoters. Revival plan is under implementation.
August 2023 for transfer of coal mining business from NTPC incorporated to develop & operate state of art/modern
(DVC) and Central During the year, your company has converted the loan given to NHPTL, into
to NML. The Ministry of Coal has amended the allotment integrated waste management and energy generation facility
Power Research equity amounting to ` 18.40 crore and unpaid interest on the loan amounting
orders of all coal mines of NTPC in favour of NML. Presently, using municipal solid waste. However, due to non-availability
Institute (CPRI) to ` 2.31 crore has been waived off. The related activities of restructuring plan
the clearances/permissions/consents related to coal mines of clear land site and Power Purchase Agreement, Waste to
were under implementation as at 31st March 2024.
of NTPC are under transfer. The transfer of mines is energy project could not be materialized. NTPC has taken up
Further, pursuant to agreement entered on 23rd April 2024 with the promoters
anticipated to be finalized by March 2025. with EDMC to transfer EDMC’s stake in NEWS to NTPC or its
of NHPTL, the shareholding of the company in the Joint venture is reduced to
subsidiary. In-principle approval has been given by Municipal
NML has received highest credit rating of AAA from CRISIL &
12.50%.
Corporation Delhi (as EDMC merged in MCD) for transfer of
CARE for long term & A1+ for short term. NML won its 1st
MCD’s equity stake (26%) in NEWS to NTPC. NTPC-BHEL Power Bharat Heavy A 50:50 JVC was incorporated for taking up activities of engineering,
Projects Pvt. Electricals procurement, and construction (EPC) of power plants and manufacturing of
b. The details of other JV companies incorporated in India which are engaged in business other than in power generation Limited (NBPPL) Limited Power sector and components.Due to financial health of NBPPL, meeting under
are as under: the chairmanship of Hon’ble Minister of Power, on NBPPL issues was held on 3rd
October 2022. It was decided that the process of winding up of NBPPL be taken
Name of Company JVPartner(s) Activities Undertaken
up by both the promoters BHEL and NTPC after the completion of balance work
Hindustan Urvarak Coal India Ltd. Your company has a stake of 33.33 % in JVC. HURL was incorporated on 15th
at Unchahar and sharing of liabilities by both Promoters. Since, Unchahar work
& Rasayan (CIL), Indian Oil June 2016 to establish and operate new fertilizer and chemicals complexes (urea,
is nearing completion, reconciliation of accounts among NBPPL, BHEL & NTPC is
Limited (HURL) Corporation ammonia, and associated chemicals) at Gorakhpur, Sindri and Barauni and market
in progress.
Limited (IOCL), its products. All three plants at Gorakhpur, Sindri and Barauni are operational.
Fertilizer During financial year 2023-24 HURL has produced 20.27 lakh MT of Ammonia BF-NTPC Energy Bharat Forge Your Company has a stake of 49% in JVC. This Company was incorporated to
Corporation of and 35.51 lakh MT of Urea. Systems Limited Limited manufacture castings, forgings, fittings, and high-pressure piping required for
India Limited (BFNESL) power projects and other industries.
Your Company is considering monetizing this asset since fertilizer is not the core
(FCIL) and However, since the project could not take off, it has been decided to wind up
business area of NTPC.
Hindustan BFNESL. Liquidator has been appointed and voluntary liquidation of the company
Fertilizer is in progress.
Corporation
Limited (HFCL)
156 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 157
Name of Company JVPartner(s) Activities Undertaken extract 2G BIO ethanol from naturally available bamboo in capacity (Thermal and/or renewable) to NALCO Captive
the region and use the by-product produced i.e., Bio coal as Power Plant (CPP). National Aluminium Company Limited
Transformers and Govt. of Your Company has a stake of 44.6% in JVC. The Company deals in manufacturing
a fuel for blending with coal to fire in Bongaigaon power plant. (NALCO) needs 1,200 MW uninterrupted power after five
Electricals Kerala Kerala (GoK) and repair of Power Transformers.
A non-binding MoU with Chempolis was signed on 10th April years for its upcoming expansion of Smelter Plant at Angul,
Limited (TELK)
Your company has accorded in-principle approval for the withdrawal of your 2023 for exploring the feasibility of setting up an integrated Odisha.
company from TELK. bamboo based biorefinery with NTPC Bongaigaon project.
Your Company and Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Utpadan Nigam
The Government of Kerala (GoK) has in principally agreed to NTPC’s exit subject The detailed feasibility report for the project, incorporating Ltd (RVUNL) signed an MOU on 10th March 2024 to explore
to valuation of NTPC’s share based on up-to-date audited results of TELK, TELK various inputs from NTPC and Chempolis, is under finalization capacity expansion opportunities and collaborated for
has been requested to expedite audited results. by consultant EIL. performance improvement in existing units (4x250 + 2x660
International Coal Coal India Limited Your Company has a stake of 0.11% in JVC. ICVPL was formed under Ministry of 6.10.2 Hydrogen Hub at Pudimadaka: MW) at Chhabra. This MOU aims to explore the possibilities
Ventures Private (CIL), Steel Steel for acquisition of stake in coal mines/ blocks/ companies overseas for of annuity-based R&M of other units of RVUNL.
Your Company has conceptualized the setting up of a Green
Limited (ICVPL) Authority of India securing coking and thermal coal supplies. In view of lack of suitable commercially
Hydrogen Hub at Pudimadaka near Vishakhapatnam, AP. The The Manufacturing Capital and Social Capital section contains
Limited (SAIL), viable opportunities for thermal coal, your company has decided to exit from
Project shall involve the establishment of a manufacturing information about these initiatives in depth, on page no. 50
Rashtriya Ispat ICVPL. Modalities for exit are being discussed with ICVPL and other Promoters.
facility for Hydrogen related equipment’s, production & & 100 respectively.
Nigam Ltd. (RINL)
export of Green Hydrogen/Ammonia/Green Chemicals. A
6.10.5 Decarbonization of thermal power:
and New Delhi
detailed proposal was submitted to the Government of
Municipal Andhra Pradesh on 11th January 2023 for development of a NTPC is pioneer in utilizing agro-residue for power generation,
Corporation Hydrogen Hub at Pudimadaka and Govt order of approval which is a carbon neutral fuel. NTPC has successfully
(NDMC) received on 24th February 2023. NTPC Green Energy Ltd demonstrated co-firing of 20% of torrefied biomass at Tanda
CNUPL (CIL NTPC Coal India Ltd. A 50:50 JVC was incorporated on 27th April 2010 between your company and CIL (NGEL), the green arm of NTPC, shall be setting up the Stage-I unit on 30.03.2024 and enhanced capability of
Urja Private (CIL) to undertake the Development of Brahmini and Chichro-Patsimal coal mines. In proposed Green Hydrogen Hub and has already executed the biomass co-firing in the thermal power plant.
Limited June’2011, GoI has de-allocated these coal blocks.CNUPL is exploring new Pudimadaka land lease deed on 20th February 2024 with
7. GLOBAL INITIATIVES
business areas. Andhra Pradesh Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (APIIC).
CNUPL is presently coordinating as a service provider for execution of 70 MW 6.10.3 Initiatives for Start Up Eco-System: 7.1.1 Bangladesh-India Friendship Power Company Private
Limited (BIFPCL), Bangladesh:
(50 MW + 20 MW) Solar Project of NLC & CCL resp. NTPC is the PMC for this
To look for innovative and out of the box solutions to its
project. existing problems, your Company is working towards BIFPCL (A 50:50 JV between NTPC & Bangladesh Power
UPL (Utility Reliance A 50:50 JVC takes up assignments of construction, erection and supervision of developing a holistic Innovation and Start-Up Ecosystem in Development Board, Bangladesh) has implemented a 1,320
Powertech Ltd.) Infrastructure business in power sector and other sectors like O&M services, Residual Life NTPC. In this context a Grand Energy Challenge for NTPC was MW coal-based thermal power project in Bangladesh. The
Limited Assessment Studies, non-conventional projects etc. launched by Startup India at their portal for three problem 1st and 2nd units of 660 MW are under commercial operation
statements related to NTPC Business. since December 2022 and March 2024 respectively.
Further, the purchase of biomass pellets via the Biomass 7.1.2 Trincomalee Power Company Limited (TPCL), Sri
Marketplace for NTPC Mouda and Solapur sites has been Lanka:
6.9 Asset Monetization cum Operator (MDO) route. The Capex incurred by appointed approved as a Pilot Project. The auction for the purchase of TPCL is a JV between NTPC (50%) and Ceylon Electricity Board
MDOs in development of coal Mines have been considered Mouda through the digital Biomass Marketplace platform has (CEB), Sri Lanka (50%). Presently, it is developing a 50 MW
Under the broad contours of the National Monetization
for Asset Monetization under the ambit of National successfully concluded. (extendable to 120 MW) solar power project at Sampur, Sri
Pipeline (NMP), your Company has been allotted a
monetization target of ` 15,000 Cr. to be achieved in tranches Monetization Pipeline. NTPC monetized ` 2,010 Crore by The Manufacturing Capital and Social Capital section contains Lanka, for which JVSHA has been signed on 11th March 2022.
awarding MDO contracts for Chatti Bariatu and Kerandari coal
over FY22 to FY25. In this regard, NTPC has proposed information about these initiatives in depth, on page no. The Cabinet of Ministers of Sri Lanka approved the proposal
mine during financial year 2021-22 and financial year 2022-
monetization of its identified RE portfolio. 50,100. for implementation of the Sampur Solar Power Project in
23.
6.9.1 Monetization of RE Assets: 6.10.4 Opportunities with States and CPSEs: March 2023. TPCL secured environmental clearance from the
During financial year 2023-24, NTPC awarded the MDO Central Environment Authority (CEA) for the 50 MW (Phase-
For better marketability, your Company has incorporated contracts for Talaipalli & Badam coal mine and achieved asset Your Company signed two investment proposals in February I) Sampur solar project in June 2023. An on-grid renewable
NTPC Green Energy Ltd. (“NGEL”) as a wholly owned monetization of ` 4,890 crore. Hence, an amount aggregating 2023 at UP Global Investors Summit. Under this, subject to Energy Permit was obtained by TPCL from Sri Lanka
subsidiary of your company for consolidation of the identified to ` 6,900 Cr is monetized through the award of MDO feasibility, statutory clearance, and equity infusion by Sustainable Energy Authority (SLSEA) in July 2023.
RE portfolio in which RE assets of NTPC were transferred to contracts for coal mine till end of financial year 2023-24. Government of Uttar Pradesh, MUNPL (a joint venture
NGEL. A payment of ` 3,410 crore was made by NGEL to NTPC between NTPC and UPRVUNL) will expand with Stage-II units. CEB provided the RFP documents for the Phase-I of Sampur
against the balance outstanding liability of RE assets 6.10 New Business Areas: Additionally, MUNPL and UPRVUNL will jointly take up setting Solar Project to TPCL. Pursuant to which, the clarifications
transferred from NTPC to NGEL. Stake sale Up to 20 % of NGEL 6.10.1 Bamboo based Bio Refinery at Bongaigaon: up 2X800 MW supercritical Thermal Power plants at Obra and finalisation of the agreements are in progress.
through Initial Public Offer mode is expected to be completed and Anpara. 7.1.3 Other Opportunities
Your Company is currently pursuing a Techno economic
by December 24.
Feasibility Study through Engineers India Limited (EIL) to set Your Company signed MOU with NALCO on 16th February Further your Company is associated as a corporate partner
6.9.2 Monetization of NTPC’s Coal Mines Asset: up a Bamboo based 2G Bio-Refinery project at Bongaigaon 2024 for exploring the possibilities of adding 1,200 MW with International Solar Alliance (ISA) and has been awarded
Thermal power station. Through this project, NTPC aims to
NTPC coal mines are being developed under Mine Developer
158 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 159
the following Project Management Consultancy (PMC) jobs distribution sector, and HR related services in addition to our a Accepted during the financial year Nil (ii) Need based training which includes curated learning
abroad: conventional business areas covering PMC for Owner’s 2023- 24 paths for all O&M executives.
Engineer services for Green field/brownfield power projects,
• ISA Solar Park PMC assignment: Appointed as PMC b Remained unpaid or unclaimed as 6 deposits (iii) Contemporary ERP enabled PMS focusing on continuous
implementation of new environmental norms e.g. FGD, ZLD,
(under the aegis of ISA Program 06) for 100 MW solar at the end of financial year amounting to feedback and assessment made possible through weekly
DNOx & ESP R&M, development of Solar & Renewable power
project in Republic of Guinea in the current financial year, 15.91 lakh* planning and feedback and monthly assessment. This is
projects, O&M and performance improvement of Thermal
thereby cumulative capacity of such PMC assignment in addition to the annual assessment at the end of the
Power Plants and IT services e.g. ERP implementation, PRADIP, c Whether there has been any default in repayment of
reaching to 6,620 MW. The projects are in different stages assessment year.
Dreams 2.0, PI systems, CLIMS etc. deposits or payment of interest thereon during the
of implementation. More countries are being
financial year and if so, number of such cases and the (iv) Planned interventions at different stages of career for
approached for assignments on similar lines. The MDA and Manufacturing capital section of the report
total amount involved: team building, leadership development and succession
contains highlights of consultancy services, on the page no.
• ISA Rooftop Solar Projects PMC assignment: Appointed planning.
176 & 50 respectively. (i) At the beginning of the financial year NIL
as PMC for implementation of 100kW Roof Top Solar
(v) Job-rotation preceded by Job-rotation facilitation
Project in Ethiopia & Sao Tome under ISA Prog-04. (ii) Maximum during the financial year NIL
9. FINANCING OF NEW PROJECTS training.
Selection of EPC Agency for execution of the Roof Top
(iii) At the end of the financial year NIL
Solar Project, Ethiopia is underway. Group Capital Expenditure (CAPEX) including CAPEX of JV/ (vi) Putting in place a promotion policy which puts a premium
subsidiaries of your Company for the financial year 2023-24 * Pending for completion of legal formalities/ restraint orders/ on performance.
• ISA 27 Solar Demonstration Projects: Appointed as PMC
non-receipt of claims.
for implementation of solarization projects in 10 was ` 35,385.08 crore and on stand-alone basis was (vii)Business Simulation Games for honing decision-making
countries viz. Seychelles, Senegal, Djibouti, Cuba, ` 19,443.53 crore (provisional) on cash basis. 11. RENOVATION AND MODERNIZATION and critical thinking skills.
Ethiopia, Suriname, Burundi, Mozambique, Malawi & To finance its capacity addition programs, your Company (viii)Tie-ups with external experts for bringing in niche
The Renovation and Modernization (R&M) of various units
Uganda, across three themes: (i) Solarization of building adheres to specific debt to equity ratios depending on the expertise and outside perspective.
of your Company, particularly those that have completed 25
roof-top/ground mounted PV installation, (ii) Solar based type of projects. For thermal and hydro projects, the debt-
years of commercial operation, is considered crucial for (ix) Coaching for selected Business Unit Heads.
Cold Storages and (iii) Solar PV based Water Pumping to-equity ratio is generally set at 70:30, while for solar/wind
achieving several objectives. These objectives include
Systems. Your Company has also prepared the DPRs for projects, it is set at 80:20. Your directors are confident that (x) Actualization of Individual Development Plan (IDP) has
ensuring the safe operation of the units, complying with the
such projects in 21 different countries under the same the internal accruals of the Company will be sufficient to been enabled by :
latest statutory norms and revised environmental norms, as
ISA initiative. finance the equity component of the new projects. With a
well as adhering to the IEGC (Indian Electricity Grid Code). a. Making IDP, a mandatory KPA index of the PMS.
low-geared capital structure and strong credit ratings, your
Projects in 5 countries (Seychelles, Cuba, Malawi, Uganda,
Company is well-positioned to raise the necessary The R&M process also focuses on recovering and improving b. Facilitating formulation of IDPs through customized
and Ethiopia) have been successfully commissioned. Projects
borrowings. the efficiency of the units, enhancing their reliability, enabling individual reports of Competency, Potential and
in other 5 countries are in various stage of implementation.
flexible operations to accommodate the integration of Value (CPV) assessments and Assessment
Your Company is actively exploring both domestic and
Your Company is also exploring business opportunities in the renewables on a large scale, sustaining operations in light of Development Centres (ADCs) undertaken.
international borrowing options, including seeking overseas
areas of power generation, PMC, O&M contracting, R&M of
development assistance from bilateral agencies. These efforts equipment health assessments conducted over the past 2 to c. 360-degree feedback as a developmental input, has
power plants, capability building etc. in the regions such as
are aimed at mobilizing the debt required for the planned 3 years, and addressing constraints arising from current also been implemented for selected grades.
Middle East, Southeast Asia, CIS regions, Latin America and
operating conditions such as changes in coal quality, water
capacity expansion program.
Africa. The L&D interventions are bolstered through contemporary
supply arrangements, and changes in laws and regulations.
Furthermore, your Company consistently engages in debt pedagogy, time and location agnostic e-learning modules and
8. CONSULTANCY SERVICES swapping for domestic loans, taking advantage of cheaper By undertaking R&M activities, your Company aims to leveraging immersive technology (Simulation, VR and AR).
optimize the performance and longevity of its units while
loans to repay older loans with higher interest rates. This
The consultancy wing of your Company plays a vital role in For commitment building, your Company provides attractive
aligning with evolving industry standards and operational
strategy enables your Company to repay loans without
supporting the Indian Power Industry by leveraging its compensation, best in class benefits and facilities (which
requirements.
incurring any repayment penalties to the bank. By optimizing
extensive experience and expertise. It offers an extensive includes medical facility), superannuation benefits (which
its debt management, your Company strives to reduce
array of consultancy services that cover the entire spectrum 12. HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT includes post-retiral medical facilities) and rewards (both
borrowing costs and enhance financial efficiency.
of power station operations, from the initial concept phase monetary and non-monetary). Your Company also focuses
to commissioning and even beyond. These services The detail of funding is available in the MDA Report which Your Company is proud of its people who are its most on listening by implementing a comprehensive
encompass diverse areas such as engineering, operations and forms part of this Annual Report, on the page no. 176 important asset and its sole differentiating factor of Communication Matrix and putting in place a system of
maintenance (O&M), project management, contracts and competitive advantage, driving desired business outcomes. Internal and External Surveys. To further facilitate employee
procurement, renovation and modernization, quality and 10. FIXED DEPOSITS In furtherance of its Employee Value Proposition (EVP) of engagement, your Company has started leveraging the power
inspection, training and development, human resources, IT, “People before PLF”, your Company has been investing in of AI for better understanding employee sentiment for
Effective from 11th May 2013, your Company has ceased
solar and renewable power projects, and compliance with Competence, Commitment, Culture and Systems Building. effecting appropriate interventions.
accepting new deposits and renewing existing deposits under
These are the four pillars of its constantly evolving HR strategy.
environmental norms for power stations.
the Public Deposit Scheme. Consequently, there are no Your Company has embraced technology and digitalization
NTPC- Consultancy is further exploring business opportunities deposits that are non-compliant with the provisions outlined For building competence for current / future roles and areas and put in place enabling Systems, for providing superior
in emerging areas such as providing consultancy services in in Chapter-V of the Companies Act, 2013. of diversification and sustaining an enabling Performance employee experience. These include ERP, ECM (paperless
the area of flexible operation of Thermal Power Plants, Culture, your Company has institutionalized the following office), HR Unified Shared Service (HRUSS), an analytics based
The details relating to deposits, as per the Companies Act,
Sustainability Advising, Hydro & Pump Storage, RDSS in the initiatives : HR decision support system (DELPHI), Contract Labour
2013 are as under:
(i) Comprehensive onboarding.
160 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 161
Information Management System (CLIMS), AI based chatbots, importance of balancing social, environmental, and economic touched, in one way or the other, the lives of around 16 lakhs transition period, the conditions of PAFs improve or at least
Medical Smart Card, Recruitment portal, Policy portal and Ex- responsibility. By focusing on these interrelated aspects, the people residing at remote locations. they regain their previous standard of living, earning capacity,
Employee portal, etc. goal is to achieve a harmonious integration of sustainable and production levels.
Apart from the CSR activities undertaken in and around
practices, increase the well-being of communities, protect
Your Company’s HR initiatives for achieving its HR Vision (“To stations to improve the living conditions of the local As per your Company’s RR Policy, which has been aligned
the environment, and ensure long-term economic prosperity.
enable our people to be a family of committed world class communities, other CSR initiatives undertaken pan-India are with the ‘The RFCTLARR Act 2013’, State Governments are
professionals, making NTPC a learning organization”), has The further detail of our sustainable initiatives and disclosures mentioned in the Annual Report on CSR activities annexed required to conduct a Social Impact Assessment (SIA)/Census
been recognized by several awards in the talent management is available in the Natural and Social capital section of the with this Report. Survey during the process of land acquisition for the project,
and development space. These include Forbes 2023 World’s report, on the page no. 66 & 100 respectively. so as to collect detailed demographic data of the area. This
Your Company spent ` 200.57 crore during the financial year
Best Employers 2023 (4th rank amongst Indian companies), shall form the basis for the preparation of the ‘Rehabilitation
2023-24 towards various CSR initiatives, against the CSR
2024 ATD Best Award (3rd rank globally), recognition of “Top 14. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY and Resettlement (R&R) Scheme’ by the ‘Appropriate
obligation of ` 112.79 crore.
Employer 2024”, by the Top Employers Institute, Brandon Hall Government’. The R&R Scheme consists of measures for
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) has always been integral
HCM Awards for leadership development, learning and The CSR Policy, which provides comprehensive guidelines for Rehabilitation & Resettlement and need-based CD
to your Company’s core business of power generation. The
development and leveraging technology, SHRM HR Excellence conducting CSR activities, is available on our Company’s infrastructure in Resettlement Colony (RC).
spirit of caring and sharing is embedded in your Company’s
Awards etc. website : https://ntpc.co.in/sites/default/files/policy-
mission statement. Your Company has a comprehensive Additionally, Your Company has retained the good practices
documents/NTPC%20Policy%20for%20CSR%202022-
The details of the same is available in the Human capital Resettlement & Rehabilitation (R&R) policy covering of the Company on the Community Development (CD)
Revised%20%281%29.pdf Furthermore, the Annual Report
section of this report, on the page no. 84. community development (CD) activities, which has been activities which are primarily aimed at socio-economic
on CSR & Sustainability activities, in compliance with Section
revised and updated from time to time. CD activities in green development in the PAVs (Project Affected Villages) and the
135 of the Companies Act, 2013, and the Companies
13. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT field area are initiated as soon as project is conceived followed Project’s vicinity. This is to ensure that the displaced families
(Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014, is placed
by extensive community and peripheral area development in the RC or the affected families settling in the neighboring
Sustainable development is at the core of your Company’s as per Annexure-VI, is appended to this report, forming an
activities alongside the project development. CSR Policy villages may secure for themselves a reasonable standard of
business development strategy. Your company firmly believes integral part of it
originally formulated in July 2004 and revised from time to community life.
in the idea that progress should not come at the expense of
• NTPC Foundation
time as is known as “NTPC Policy for CSR and Sustainability”
the environment and natural ecosystems. To promote Expenditure on implementation of the R&R Plan is part of
sustainability, we are driven by two key motives: in line with Companies Act, 2013 and Department of Public NTPC Foundation, funded by your Company, is engaged the capital cost of the project. The Plan is implemented in a
Enterprises (DPE) Guidelines for CSR. It covers a wide range in serving and empowering the differently abled and time-bound manner so as to complete it by the time of the
a) To become the most sustainable energy producer by
of activities including implementation of a few key economically weaker sections of the society. project’s commissioning. Upon completion of the R&R Plan
making fundamental changes in the operating methods
Programmes taken through NTPC Foundation- a charitable
implementation, a Social Impact Evaluation (SIE) is conducted
The details of expenditure incurred, and initiatives
b) Increase transparency through timely disclosure of social, trust set up by your Company to serve and empower the by a professional agency to know the efficacy of the R&R
undertaken by your Company under CSR are covered in
environmental, and economic results Physically Challenged and Under Privileged Sections of the Plan implementation for future learning & corrective actions,
Annual Report on CSR and is annexed to this Report.
Society & women.
if any.
Your Company has developed an Environmental, Social and
Governance Management System (ESG-MS) that outlines ESG Your Company’s focus areas of CSR activities are Health, 15. REHABILITATION AND RESETTLEMENT (R&R)
management principles for your Company and provides Sanitation, Safe Drinking Water and Education. Moreover, 15.1 R&R achievements during the financial year:
Your Company is committed to helping the population
guidance for managing ESG risks and opportunities in our Capacity Building of the youth, Women Empowerment, Social affected on account of land acquisition. The Company has • Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) Plan:
operations. It consists of an ESG policy statement, Infrastructure Development, livelihood creation through
been making efforts to improve the Socio-economic status R&R activities were implemented at the Greenfield /
measurement and reporting of material indicators, target support for implementation of innovative agriculture &
of the Project Affected Families (PAFs). As a part of its Brownfield Thermal Power projects - Barh, Darlipali,
settings. There is also a dedicated ESG and Climate Change livestock development, support to Physically Challenged
decision-making process, your Company has had an R&R Gadarwara, Kanti, Khargone, Kudgi, Lara, Meja, North-
Committee to assist the board in setting the Company’s Person (PCPs), and for the activities contributing towards
Policy since the year 1993 which has been amended from Karanpura, NSTPS, Patratu, Solapur, Tanda-II, Telangana,
general strategy with respect to ESG and climate change Environment Sustainability have also been taken up. Your
time to time to keep abreast of the Government guidelines. Hydro projects–Tapovan- Vishnugad & Rammam-III and
issues. Company is committed to contribute to the society,
Your Company’s latest R&R Policy-2017 (RR Policy) is in line Coal Mining Projects at Pakri-Barwadih, Chatti-Bariatu,
discharging its Corporate Social Responsibilities through
Your Company is also implementing “The Brighter Plan 2032”, with the extant Land Acquisition Act - The RFCTLARR Act, Kerendari, Dulanga and Talaipalli as per the R&R / CD
initiatives that have positive impact on the society, especially
a comprehensive sustainability strategy aimed at becoming 2013 (The Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Plans, which were finalized earlier in consultation with
the community in the neighborhood of its operations by
the most sustainable power producer. This plan focuses on Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013). the stakeholders and approved by the State Government.
improving the quality of life of the people, promoting
key aspects of sustainability such as reducing carbon
inclusive growth and environmental sustainability. R&R activities are initiated at your Company’s projects by The R&R CD works have been successfully completed at
emissions and controlling air emissions, water conservation,
undertaking need-based community development activities NTPC VSTPS-Stage IV & V and NTPC Bongaigaon and
biodiversity protection, health and safety, circular economy, Preference for CSR & Sustainability activities is being given
in the areas of health & sanitation, education, drinking water, Social Impact Evaluations have indicated a positive
community development, finance and ethics, and sustainable to local areas around Company’s operations, ensuring that
capacity building, infrastructure, solar electrification, etc. by impact on the community. Further, community
supply chain. Through this strategy, strategic approaches and majority CSR funds are spent for activities in local areas.
formulating the ‘Initial Community Development (ICD) Plan’ development works in the vicinity areas of these projects
actions in each of these areas are formulated to ensure the However, considering Inclusive Growth and Environment
in consultation with concerned Panchayats, District would be taken under CSR as per the provisions of the
long-term sustainability of your business. Sustainability and to supplement Government efforts,
Administration and other Stakeholders. Your Company Companies Act, 2013.
activities are also taken up in other parts of the country.
Your Company employs a three-pronged approach and addresses the R&R issues in line with the extant RR Policy /
During the year, 581 villages and more than 558 schools have Re-appropriations in cost provisions of R&R / CD Plans,
considers people, planet and profit as the main pillars of Central Government/ State Government / extant Land
been benefitted by Your Company’s various CSR initiatives at as required on a case-to-case basis, for specific activities
business sustainability. This approach emphasizes the Acquisition Act, with an objective, that after a reasonable
different locations. Your Company’s CSR initiatives have in view of the request/ needs of stakeholders/ district
162 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 163
administration, were also approved to take care of the 16. NTPC ENERGY TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH ALLIANCE and regional headquarters was inspected and need based transparency, efficiency, and ensure coverage of the workers
local needs & requirements. (NETRA) suggestions were given to the respective heads of offices in for statutory social security measures. By adopting CLIMS,
this regard. Quarterly meetings of official language your Company has improved the overall labour management
• Focus areas for Community Development activities:
Your Company is dedicated to incorporating innovative
implementation committee were held in which extensive process, facilitating timely and accurate provision of wages
Community Development (CD) activities are generally technologies in our power plants to enhance safety, reliability, discussions took place on progressive use of Hindi and the and benefits to your workers while ensuring their well-being
initiated by your Company under ICD (Initial Community and efficiency. We strategically develop, adopt, and adapt ways and means to bring about further improvements. and safety.
Development) Policy and subsequently under the R&R/ frontier technologies to address major concerns in the power
Hindi Divas was celebrated on 14th September 2023 and Hindi
CD Plan of the Project. Your Company is sensitive to the sector while exploring potential opportunities. In 2009, we 19. VIGILANCE
Fortnight was organized from 15th to 29th September 2023 at
needs and aspirations of the Project Affected Families established the NTPC Energy Technology Research Alliance
(PAFs). Your Company also provides Stakeholder’s (NETRA) as a state-of-the-art research centre. NETRA the Corporate Centre as well as regional headquarters and To ensure transparency, objectivity and quality of decision
Participation through its Public Information Centers/ R&R collaborates with leading institutes, technology players, and projects/stations to create awareness among the employees, making in various operations, the Company has a Vigilance
Offices/ Village Development Advisory Committee service providers at the national and international levels. We Associates, and their family members. Our biannual Hindi Department headed by Chief Vigilance Officer. The Vigilance
(VDAC) Meetings to disseminate useful information are guided by a Research Advisory Council (RAC) comprising magazine ‘Vidyut Swar’ published (in digitized from) to set up in the Company consists of Vigilance Executives in
sought by the villagers. Other useful information is also eminent scientists and experts, while our in-house Scientific promote creative writing in Hindi. Employees were motivated Corporate Centre as well as at sites. In sites, the Vigilance
communicated through notices, pamphlets, letters, etc. Advisory Council (SAC) provides directions for improving plant to use Hindi in official work by organizing Hindi workshops, Executives report to the Project Head in administrative
from time to time. performance and reducing costs. Unicode Hindi Computer Training along with Hindi e-tools matters and they report to the Chief Vigilance Officer in
and popularization of Hindi incentive schemes. Hindi functional matters.
In the last 10 years up to financial year 2023-24, more NETRA’s collaborative approach and focus on research and webpage was updated with improvement important
than 2,462 crore worth of expenditure were incurred by development demonstrate your Company’s commitment to information of Rajbhasha for employees. Corporate Vigilance Department consists of four Cells as
your Company towards Community Development (CD) staying at the forefront of technological advancements. By under:
NTPC was honoured an Excellence Award by Hon’ble Cabinet
works by various Projects under R&R Plans. embracing innovation, your Company aims to drive 1. Vigilance Investigation and Processing Cell
Minister of Power and New & Renewable Energy Shri R.K.
continuous improvement, overcome challenges, and unlock
• Drinking water – Planning and implementation of Singh for Implementation of Official Language policy in Hindi 2. Departmental Proceedings Cell
new opportunities in the power sector. Through the prudent
activities towards access to drinking water for 100% Advisory Committee’s meeting. Also, NTPC provides ‘NTPC
mix of development, adoption, and adaption of frontier 3. Technical Examination Cell
coverage of all Project Affected Villages are undertaken. Rajbhasha Shield’ to the PSUs and institutions of Ministry of
technologies, your Company ensures the safety, reliability,
Your Company’s Policy- Jal Jyoti Mission embarks upon Power for remarkable achievements in implementation of 4. MIS Cell
and efficiency of its power plants. NETRA plays a crucial role
ensuring safe drinking water and rejuvenation of ponds in driving high-end research, supported by the expertise of Official Language policy. The second sub-committee of These cells deal with various facets of vigilance mechanism.
in its project-affected villages. the RAC and SAC. This consolidated effort positions your Parliament on official Language had inspected our units; The vigilance works have been assigned region-wise to
• Capacity building / Skill up-gradation – Training Company as a leader in incorporating innovative technologies reviewed the progress of Official Language implementation Vigilance officers at Corporate Centre (Regional Vigilance
programs were conducted by various projects towards and pursuing a more sustainable and efficient energy future. and appreciated our efforts. NTPC’s website also has a facility Executives) for speedier disposal. Senior officials of Vigilance
the skill enhancement of youths. The specific focus was of operating in a bilingual form, in Hindi as well as in English. Department comprising ED (Vigilance), Regional Vigilance
NETRA continuously adapts its focus areas to meet the
on imparting training to the villagers on modern farming Executives and Head of DPC/MIS Cell meet regularly to discuss
evolving needs of the power sector. Currently, our R&D efforts 18. WEB BASED CONTRACTORS’ LABOUR
methods. The support to dependents of PAFs for ITI common issues to ensure uniform working in all Regions. This
are centered on carbon capture and utilization technologies,
training was also extended to increase their INFORMATION AND MANAGEMENT SYSTEM facilitates transparency, efficiency, and effectiveness of
ash utilization technology, waste-to-energy solutions, water
employability. (CLIMS Vigilance functionaries by making use of collective
technology, as well as efficiency improvement, cost reduction,
knowledge, experience and wisdom of Vigilance Executives
• Education – Financial assistance was extended towards new and renewable energy, climate change, and Your Company has successfully implemented a web-based
as well as breaking of compartmentalization and abridging
up-gradation of infrastructure and other basic amenities environmental protection. Our laboratories, which are ISO in-house solution called ‘Contractors’ Labour Information
of strengths & weaknesses. Vigilance setup of company is
in the neighbouring schools and educational institutions 17025 accredited, provide advanced scientific services in Management System (CLIMS),’ which operates on a captive
accredited with ISO-9000:2015 certificate since 2021. The
of NTPC projects including for development of areas such as nondestructive examination, metallurgy, failure private cloud. This system helps in streamlining various labour
policy on Vigil Mechanism/Whistle-Blower can be accessed
Educational Institutes in the technical and medical analysis, oil/water chemistry, environment, electrical systems, management processes and ensures pre-deployment health
on the Company’s website at:
domain. and computational fluid dynamics. Recognized as a Remnant checkup, safety training and coverage of the contractors’
https://ntpc.co.in/sustainability/policies/governance.
Life Assessment Organization, NETRA ensures efficient and workers under various statutory social security and welfare
Company has the Policy on Improving Learning Outcomes
reliable performance in our power plants while upholding legislations. The system uses a fully biometric access control The detail of your Company vigilance work is available in the
& Quality of Education for children studying in
the highest safety and quality standards. mechanism, thus providing real-time information on the Ethics and Vigilance section of our report., on the page no.
Government Schools of its project-affected villages.
availability of workers in various jobs and at the same time, 41.
The further details of the NETRA’s performance highlights is
• Health - For the benefit of PAFs and neighboring augmenting the security of the power plant. The system also
available in the Intellectual capital section of the report, on
populations, medical outreach through Mobile Health offers convenient worker management solutions to the 20. REDRESSAL OF PUBLIC GRIEVANCES
the page no. 120.
Clinics & Medical Camps/ NTPC’s own Hospital set-ups contracting agencies by providing them digitised database
Your Company is committed for resolution of public grievance
is ensured. Support is extended by the projects in of their workers for efficient administration of wage and other
17. IMPLEMENTATION OF OFFICIAL LANGUAGE in efficient and time bound manner. Executive Director (HR)
augmenting the existing health- care infra in the vicinity statutory benefits.
has been designated as Director (Grievance) to facilitate
of various projects. Your Company has the Policy on NTPC has taken several initiatives for the progressive use of
CLIMS incorporates a range of features to enhance worker earliest resolution of public grievances received from
Maternal and Child Health Care to provide 650 days of Hindi in the day-to-day official work and implementation of
management. This comprehensive system enables you to President Secretariat, Prime Minister’s Office, Ministry of
antenatal/prenatal & postnatal preventive health care official language policy of the Union of India in your company.
effectively monitor and manage your workforce, promote Power etc.
to expectant & new mothers and new-born babies. The compliance of official language policy in your projects
164 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 165
In order to facilitate resolution of grievances in transparent Your Company has been designated as CERT-Thermal for security solutions such as SIEM, NGFW and NGAV - Biomass co-firing Module
and time bound manner, Department of Administrative coordinating Cyber Security activities for Thermal Generation solutions ensuring quick analysis and reporting.
- Hydrogen Generation Emission Calculator Module
Reforms & Public Grievances, Department of Personnel & utilities in India. Your Company has taken various initiatives
Launch of various Web & Mobile apps as part of its digital
Training, Government of India has initiated web-based in Information Security measuring itself on key areas of - Imported Coal and RLNG Generation cost and CO2
initiatives.
monitoring system at www.pgportal.gov.in. Security, Security Operation Centre (SOC), Cloud based WAAP emission comparison.
Solution, Zero Trust based Secure Access, unified End Point • Strategic Initiative Management System: It is designed
• Contractors Performance Feedback and Evaluation
As per directions of GOI, public grievances are to be resolved
Vulnerability and Security Management Solution, Web and to enable NTPC to plan, execute and evaluate its strategic
System: It is a comprehensive framework designed to
within a period of 30 days. If it is not possible to resolve the
Mobile Applications Development, Analytics, & Vendor targets like Management Agenda, MoU Target, CMD
monitor and assess contractor performance for NTPC’s
same within this period, an interim reply is to be given. Your
Management, to identify the gaps & plug them. initiatives, directions of the GOI etc. The application
REL’s Projects. The system automatically calculates
company is making all efforts to resolve grievances in the
provides a dashboard to the management to track and
above time frame. Your Company plants and offices across India, are connected Monthly Scores and Weighted Average Scores based on
evaluate the progress of these vital initiatives and to
to Corporate Office and main Data Centre (DC) through 2x34/ predefined formulas, which are communicated to
achieve the corporate goals.
21. RIGHT TO INFORMATION (RTI) 45/68/155 Mbps high-speed MPLS links at each site to facilitate vendors through autogenerated emails. The system aims
seamless communication. The DC and DR (Disaster Recovery) • Mobile App for NETRA: It provides a unified view of all to minimize subjectivity, ensure transparency and
Your company recognizes the importance of providing
site is connected with high bandwidth 2x400 Mbps MPLS links facets of NTPC’s R&D wing, NETRA, and activities fairness in assessments, reduce dependence on sites for
information to citizens and maintaining transparency and
for data replication. Both the Data Centers at Noida & undertaken by it. The app acts as a single window to the non-performing cases, and prioritize activities crucial for
accountability. In accordance with the Right to Information
Hyderabad are ISO 27001 complaint. repository of NETRA’s vast knowledge base using PRADIP, project implementation, thus ensuring effective
Act 2005 (RTI Act). Your company has implemented the
eGyan Knowledge Management Portal and the lab contractor performance evaluation and project
necessary mechanisms to facilitate this. It has appointed Some of the highlights of the progress in IT/ERP area during
reports anytime, anywhere controlled through management.
individuals such as the Central Public Information Officers, the year 2023-24 are as follows:
authorization and roles.
• Employee Personnel File Management System: This
An Appellate Authority and Assistant Public Information
• Digitization – The digitization initiative in the form of
• Sangam Portal (CC Intranet Portal): This portal provides PRADIP based process allows creation of personnel file
Officers (APIOS) at all sites and offices.
Project PRADIP resulted in implementation e-Office,
access to all the intranet-based non-ERP applications of for new employee and addition of documents to
During financial year 2023-24, your Company received a total digitization of documents and paperless processes for
the organization through SSO (Single Sign On). It also Personnel file for Existing employees. It provides secured
number of 1893 applications under the RTI Act, which different functions. Several enhancements have been
provides the facility to create new websites through its and access-controlled storage of Personnel files and are
includes 122 pending applications from the previous fiscal made in USSC-C&M, Finance, e-Office module etc. to
plug-and-play features. This is a very handy tool which only accessible to HR Employees based on their access
year. Among these, 1838 applications have been responded optimize the resources and to enhance the performance.
can be used to launch an intranet website with only some rights. It is also available anywhere-anytime with High
to, while 55 applications are still awaiting resolution. PRADIP has been made more secure through
simple configurations. Availability and no single point of failure; safety of data
Additionally, your Company has voluntarily made disclosures implementing Multi-Factor Authentication and Single
is also ensured by scheduled backups of the system.
under section 4(1) (b) of the RTI Act, and these disclosures Sign-On technology. • IDEATHON: NTPC Business Incubation initiative, ‘NTPC-
Ideation’ is a step towards identifying the Young Thought • IT Consultancy assignments for 5.16Cr towards power
have been audited by NPTI Faridabad.
• ERP – Several new modules were introduced in ERP as
Leaders-Intrapreneurs. It is an enabling platform sector improvement –
By adhering to the provisions of the RTI Act, Your Company part of process improvements such as Incorporation of
intended to nurture, incubate, and mentor new ideas,
strives to ensure that citizens have access to information and SG-AGC (Schedule Generation -Automatic Generation  SAP support in JV companies of NTPC.
foster start-ups, and helping to grow them into successful
that transparency is upheld in all its operations. Control) in BW Hydro Performance report, Integration Start-ups for Power sector. It also aims to create an  M365 support in JV companies of NTPC.
of Job Safety Analysis (JSA) with PTW process,
entrepreneurial mind-set, bring in agility and Innovative  PI System implementation in OPGC
22. USING INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION Enhancement in Generation loss report to allow unit level
thinking amongst executives. It provides them with an
TECHNOLOGY FOR PRODUCTIVITY ENHANCEMENT view, Development of Compensation and MOPA  Dreams 2.0 Implementation in UPPTCL
opportunity to develop their leadership skills, increasing
(Monthly Operating Pattern Adjustment) rates for
Information and Communication Technology (ICT) is playing risk appetite, improving decision making skills,
Committed Gas, Enhancement in Domestic coal- MGR 23. GROUP COMPANIES: SUBSIDIARIES AND JOINT
a pivotal role in enhancing productivity in your company by collaboration, networking while exploring dynamic
process related to Coal Quality Parameters (third party VENTURES
streamlining processes, improving communication and growth and inspiring change.
sampling) etc.
collaboration, leveraging data insights, and adapting to the • CERC Tariff Petition System: The whole process of As of 31st March 2024, your Company has 15 subsidiary
changing work environments. • M365 Implementation- A Comprehensive Cloud based petition submission is now automated as an independent companies (including 5 Step Down Subsidiary Companies) and
Your Company is pursuing the Digital First strategy by taking SaaS solution implemented across NTPC including JVs for application in SAP, comprising of different modules for 16 joint venture companies (including 2 foreign companies)
definitive steps towards permeating Digitalization in all mail and messaging services, Teams, Share Point, Powe Data Preparation, Approval, and generation of Tariff engaged in specific business activities. Out of 10 direct
aspects of business apart from greener environment. Various App, Power BI etc. along with Single Sign On (SSO). forms. This Application is configurable, modular, scalable, Subsidiary Companies, 5 are wholly owned by your Company.
new Digital initiatives projects implemented during financial • Security – No major security breach was observed during flexible and Role Based; designed to take care of frequent The list of JV and Subsidiary Companies of your company has
year 2023-24 like Advance Analytics Package, Hire to Retire the financial year 2023-24. A 24x7 Cyber Security changes in CERC reporting requirement in the most been provided under Note 59 of the Notes to the Accounts
in SAP, VR based Training, Ash Dyke Mobile App, Paperless Operation Centre (CSOC) is in operation analyzing more optimum manner. of Standalone Financial Statement of the Company for the
Movement for Ex-Employees, RFID based Stores Management than 15 billion events per month and reporting findings • Engineering Calculator 2.0: This Version 2.0 of the app financial year 2023-24.
and Cloud Infrastructure and Unified ABT system. Safety being and coordinating closure. It also enables Real-time has been prepared with additional modules for In addition to the aforesaid ventures, there are two more
an important area, a dedicated safety app is developed and Monitoring of External Attack Surface by coordinating engineering thumb rule calculations and understanding Joint Venture Companies namely International Coal Ventures
is integrated with Plants Safety Data in Power BI for Joint with Cyber Swachhta Kendra to help identify security dynamic energy market scenarios. The Modules added Private Ltd and BF-NTPC Energy Systems Ltd, from which your
Ventures companies. gaps and Comprehensive integration of disparate in Version 2.0 of the app include: Company has decided to exit. For International Coal Ventures
166 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 167
Private Limited, the decision to exit was made due to the to 28th August 2023 and the Consolidated Cost Audit Report 24.5 Review of accounts by Comptroller & Auditor General As advised by the Office of the Comptroller & Auditor General
lack of commercially viable opportunities for thermal coal. for your Company was filed with the Central Government on of India (C&AG) of India (C&AG), a comment of C&AG alongwith Management
Additionally, with the approval from the Ministry of Power, 25th August 2023. reply for both the standalone and consolidated financial
The Comptroller & Auditor General of India, through letter
the winding-up process has commenced for BF-NTPC Energy statements of your Company for the year ended 31 March
The Cost Audit Report for the financial year ended 31st March dated 01.08.2024, has given a Comment on the Standalone
Systems Limited, and a liquidator has been appointed for the 2024 are being placed with the report of Statutory Auditors
2024 shall be filed within the prescribed time period under Financial Statements of your Company for the year ended 31
voluntary liquidation of this joint venture company. of your Company elsewhere in this Annual Report.
the Companies (Cost Records & Audit) Rules, 2014. March 2024 after conducting supplementary audit under
Your company is also considering monetizing its investment Section 143 (6) (a) of the Companies Act, 2013. 24.6 Secretarial Audit Report and Management Response
24.3 Secretarial Auditors
in Hindustan Urvarak & Rasayan Limited (HURL) since fertilizer thereto.
The Comptroller & Auditor General of India, through letter
is not the core business area of your Company. Your Company In pursuant to the provisions of Section 204 of the Companies
dated 01.08.2024, has also given a Comment on the The “Secretarial Audit Report” from the secretarial auditor
is also looking forward to exiting from TELK and is in discussion Act, 2013 and Regulation 24A of the SEBI (LODR) Regulations,
Consolidated Financial Statements of your Company for the in Form MR-3 as required under Section 204 of the Companies
with Government of Kerala. Your company is also considering 2015, the Board of Directors has appointed M/s Amit Agrawal
year ended 31 March 2024 after conducting supplementary Act, 2013 read with rule 9 of the Companies (Appointment
exit; from PTC India Ltd. (Current shareholding 4.05% only) & Associates, Company Secretary in practice as the Secretarial
audit under Section 143 (6) (a) read with Section 129 (4) of and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014
Auditor for conducting Secretarial Audit of the Company for
A statement containing the salient feature of the financial the Companies Act, 2013. forms part of this report as per Annexure-X. The Management
the financial year 2023-24.
statement of your Company’s Subsidiaries, Associate Response on the qualification in the Secretarial Auditor
Companies and Joint Ventures as per first proviso of section 24.4 Management comments on Statutory Auditors’ Report Report is mentioned below: -
129(3) of the Companies Act, 2013 is included under AOC-1
The Statutory Auditors of the Company have given an un-
Observations Management’s Comments
in the consolidated financial statements.
qualified report on the accounts of the Company for the
financial year 2023-24. However, they have drawn attention The Company is not in compliance with the provisions of During the financial year 2023-24, Independent Director was
24. INFORMATION PURSUANT TO STATUTORY AND under ‘Emphasis of Matter’ to the following notes of the Regulation 17 and 25(6) of SEBI (Listing Obligations and less than the required limit. As per Articles of Association of
OTHER REQUIREMENTS Standalone Financial Statements: Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 regarding the the Company, the power to appoint Directors vests with the
requirements of having at least half of the Board of Directors President of India. The Company had requested Ministry of
Information required to be furnished as per the Companies (i) Note No. 50 with respect to one of the projects under
as the Independent Directors and filling the vacancy of the Power, Government of India, being administrative ministry
Act, 2013 and as per SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015 and any construction, wherein by the order dated 5th January
Independent Directors within Specified Period. Further half for appointment of Independent Director from time to time
amendments thereto are as under: 2023 of Additional District Magistrate, Chamoli,
of the Board of the Company was not "non-executive" for a in order to comply with the said regulations.
construction activities are stopped till further orders.
24.1 Statutory Auditors certain period.
(ii) Note No. 59 (f) (i) in respect of related party transactions
The Statutory Auditors of your company are appointed by The Company was not in Compliance with Regulation 17(10) Refer Para 24.8 and 24.9
executed during the year pertaining to the assignments
the Comptroller & Auditor General of India. Joint Statutory of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations
awarded till the financial year 2022-23 to M/s Utility
Auditors for the financial year 2023-24 were (i) M/s. Vinod related to evaluation of the Independent Directors of the
Powertech Ltd., a Joint Venture of the Company, which
Kumar & Associates, Chartered Accountants, New Delhi (ii) Company by the entire Board of Directors of the Company.
have been approved by the Board of Directors.
M/s. Goyal Parul & Co., Chartered Accountants, New Delhi
(iii) M/s. M C Bhandari & Co., Chartered Accountants, (iii) Note No. 63(iii)(b) with respect to appeal filed by the
24.7 Risk Management • Legal risks
Hyderabad (iv) M/s. J K S S & Associates, Chartered company with the Hon’ble High Court of Delhi in the
Accountants, Jaipur and (v) M/s. Agasti & Associates, matter of Arbitral award pronounced against the Your Company has an elaborate Enterprise Risk Management • Risks related to coal mining.
Chartered Accountants, Bhubaneshwar and (vi) M/s. S. N. Company and the related provision made/disclosure of (ERM) framework, including risk management policy for risk • Difficulties in acquisition of land
Kapur & Associates, Chartered Accountants, Kanpur. contingent liability as mentioned in the said note. identification and its mitigation, in place. As per SEBI (LODR) • Delay in execution of projects
Regulations, 2015 the Company has a Board Level Risk
24.2. Cost Auditors (iv) Note No. 65(B)(v) with respect execution of Business Management Committee, which as on March 31, 2024, • Risks pertaining to hydro projects.
Transfer Agreement (BTA) with NTPC Mining Ltd., a
As prescribed under the Companies (Cost Records and Audit) comprised of Director (Projects), Director (Operations), • Inadequate fuel supply
wholly owned Subsidiary of the Company, for hiving of
Rules, 2014, the Cost Accounting records are being Independent Director and Chief Risk Officer.
coal mining business, which shall become effective on The RMC meets regularly and monitors the top risks through
maintained by all stations and Coal mines of your Company.
completion of conditions precedent mentioned in the The primary mandate of the RMC encompasses the reporting of key risk indicators, prepare mitigation plans and
The firms of Cost Accountants appointed under Section 148(3) BTA. identification and thorough review of potential risks, followed monitors their implementation. The risk assessment and the
of the Companies Act, 2013 for the financial year 2023-24 by the development of robust action plans and strategic progress of the mitigation measures are reported regularly
Further, in addition to the above, they have drawn
were i) M/s Datta Ghosh Bhattacharya & Associates, Kolkata; initiatives aimed at mitigating these risks effectively. During to the Board of Directors. Moreover, the RMC seamlessly
attention under ‘Emphasis of Matter’ to the following
ii) M/s BVS & Co., Hyderabad; iii) M/s Paliwal & Associates, financial year 2023-24, the RMC has identified 26 risks, out coordinates its functions with other committees as necessary.
note of the Consolidated Financial Statements:
Lucknow; iv) M/s S. Dhal & Co., Bhubaneshwar; v) M/s of which 9 risks have been rated as top risks for the company Notably, NTPC’s Enterprise Risk Management (ERM)
Narasimha Murthy & Co., Hyderabad; vi) M/s B.G. Chowdhury (v) Note No. 52(d) with respect to postponement of revenue as listed below: framework aligns with the globally recognized ISO
& Co, Kolkata; vii) M/s Diwanji And Associates, Vadodara; viii) due to uncertainty of ultimate collection by M/s Ratnagiri • Threats to safety & security of people & property 31000:2018 standards, ensuring a robust and internationally
M/s M. Krishnaswamy & Associates, Namakkal, Tamil Nadu; Gas and Power Ltd., a Subsidiary of the Company. compliant approach to risk.
• Sustaining efficient plant operations
and ix) M/s H. Tara & co., Delhi.
The issues have been adequately explained in the Your Company is exposed to foreign exchange risk in respect
• Compliance of emission, ash utilization and regulatory
The due date for filing consolidated Cost Audit Report in XBRL respective Notes referred to by the Auditors. of contracts denominated in foreign currency for purchase
norms
format for the financial year ended 31st March 2023 was up of plant and machinery, spares and fuel for its projects/
168 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 169
stations and foreign currency loans. In terms of its Exchange 24.10 Declaration by Independent Directors In pursuance to Section 134(3)(h) of the Companies Act, 2013 24.20 Procurement from Micro and Small Enterprises
Risk Management Policy, during financial year 2023-24, your and Rule 8(2) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014, the (MSEs) and Procurement through GEM
During the year, all the Independent Directors have met the
Company has entered into derivative contracts amounting “Disclosure of particulars of contracts / arrangements entered
requirements specified under Section 149(6) of the The Government of India has notified a Public Procurement
to JPY 3,729.80 million, USD 178.74 million and EUR 12.47 by the Company with related parties including certain arms-
Companies Act, 2013 for holding the position of ‘Independent Policy for Micro and Small Enterprises (MSEs) Order, 2012
million in respect of foreign currency loans exposure. length transactions” are disclosed in Form AOC-2 and is
Director’ and necessary declaration from each Independent notified by the Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium
annexed to this Report as Annexure-VIII.
24.8 Policy for Selection and appointment of Directors’ and Director under Section 149 (7) of the Companies Act, 2013 Enterprises (Ministry of MSME) under section 11 of Micro,
their remuneration was received. Also, declaration under Regulation 25 of SEBI 24.16 Significant and material orders passed by the Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006.
(LODR) Regulations, 2015 and Rule 6 of the Companies regulators or courts or tribunals impacting the going
Your Company being a Government Company, the provisions During the financial year 2023-24, the Company has procured
(Appointment and Qualification of Directors) Rules, 2014 are concern status and company’s operations in future.
of Section 134(3)(e) of the Companies Act, 2013 do not apply 36,448.19 crore (Including GST) through GEM portal. Further,
also obtained from all the Independent Director of your
in view of the Gazette notification dated 05.06.2015 issued No significant and material orders were passed by any the Company has procured items valuing ` 10,109.55 Crore
Company.
by Government of India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs. regulator or court or tribunal impacting the going concern from MSE vendors which was 49.94% of the total
24.11 Management Discussion and Analysis Report status and company’s operations during the financial year procurement* of ` 20,241.53 crore against the minimum
24.9 Performance Evaluation of the Directors and the Board
2023-24. threshold of 40% as stipulated in the Public Procurement
The Management Discussion and Analysis (MDA) Report, as
Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA), through General Circular Policy for Micro and Small Enterprises (MSMEs) Order. Out
per Regulation 34(2)(e) read with Schedule-V to the SEBI 24.17 Adequacy of internal financial controls with reference
dated 5th June 2015, has exempted Government Companies of which, the procurement percentage from MSEs owned by
(LODR) Regulations, 2015 and DPE Guidelines, is placed as to the financial reporting
from the provisions of Section 178 (2) of the Companies Act, SC/ST and Women Entrepreneurs was 0.13% and 0.51%
per Annexure-I and forms part of this Directors’ Report.
2013 which requires of performance evaluation of every Your Company has in place adequate internal financial respectively.
director by the Nomination & Remuneration Committee. The 24.12 Corporate Governance Report controls with reference to financial reporting. During the year,
Your Company has conducted 26 Vendor Development
aforesaid circular of MCA further exempted Govt. Companies such controls were regularly tested and no reportable
In accordance with Regulation 34(3) of SEBI (LODR) Programs (VDPs), including 17 Special VDPs for MSEs owned
from provisions of Section 134(3)(p) of the Companies Act, material weakness in the design, implementation and
Regulations, 2015, a detailed report on Corporate by SC/ST and Women Entrepreneurs across the company.
2013 which requires mentioning the manner of formal operation effectiveness was observed.
Governance along with a certificate on Compliance of
evaluation of its own performance by the Board and that of Annual procurement plan from MSEs is uploaded on
conditions of Corporate Governance under the SEBI 24.18 Particulars of Loans, Guarantees or Investments
its Committees and Individual Director in Board’s Report, if https://ntpc.co.in/procurement-plan
Regulation and DPE Guidelines on Corporate Governance are
directors are evaluated by the Ministry or Department of the The details of investments made, loans granted, and
placed as per Annexure-II and forms part of the Directors’ *Excluding Primary fuel, Secondary fuel, steel, cement, project procurement including
Central Government which is administratively in charge of guarantees extended by the Company during the financial Renovation & Modernization and procurement from Original Equipment Manufacturer
Report.
the company, or, as the case may be, the State Government year 2023-24 under Section 186 of the Companies Act, 2013 (OEM)/ Original Equipment Supplier (OES)/ Proprietary Article Certificate (PAC) as per
Order of the Development Commissioner, Ministry of MSME vide letter No. F. No. 21(9)/
as per its own evaluation methodology. 24.13 Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report are disclosed at Note 59 to the standalone financial
2017-MA(Pt-I) (E-17230) dated 31-08-2021.
statements for the financial year 2023-24.
Further, as per MCA Notification dated 5th July 2017, in case The “Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report” in 24.21 Particulars of Employees
the matters of performance evaluation are specified by the compliance with the provisions of Regulation 34 of the SEBI 24.19 Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal of Sexual
concerned Ministries or Departments of the Central (LODR) Regulations, 2015 and Certificate on Reasonable Harassment of Women at Workplace As per provisions of Section 197(12) of the Companies Act,
Government or as the case may be, the State Governments Assurance of BRSR Core as specified by the SEBI Circular SEBI/ 2013 read with Rule 5 of the Companies (Appointment and
Your company has a comprehensive policy in place to address
and such requirements are complied with by the Government HO/CFD/CFD-SEC-2/P/CIR/2023/122 dated July 12, 2023, form Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, every
the Prevention, Prohibition, and Redressal of Sexual
companies, provisions of Schedule IV w.r.t. performance part of the Report and placed as per Annexure-IX. listed company is required to disclose the ratio of the
Harassment of Women at the Workplace, in accordance with
remuneration of each director to the median employee’s
evaluation of Directors are exempted for the Government
24.14 Investor Education and Protection Fund (IEPF) the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention,
remuneration and details of employees receiving
Companies.
Prohibition & Redressal) Act, 2013. This policy is applicable
Number of Equity Shares due for transfer to IEPF and details remuneration exceeding limits as prescribed from time to
In this regard, Department of Public Enterprises (DPE) has of unclaimed dividend as on March 31, 2024, are available to all female employees, including those who are regular, time in the Directors’ Report.
already laid down a mechanism for performance appraisal contractual, temporary, or trainees.
on the website of the Company, and this is also disclosed in
However, as per notification dated 5th June 2015 issued by
of all functional directors DPE has also initiated evaluation of
the Corporate Governance report placed at Annexure-II, To ensure effective implementation and handling of
the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Government Companies
Independent Directors
which forms part of the Directors’ Report. complaints, Internal Committees (ICs) have been established
are exempted from complying with provisions of Section 197
Your Company enters into a Memorandum of Understanding 24.15 Particulars of contracts or arrangements with related at all projects and locations of your company. These of the Companies Act, 2013. Therefore, such particulars have
(MOU) with Government of India each year, demarcating key parties committees are responsible for addressing and resolving not been included and do not form part of this Directors’
performance parameters for the company. The performance complaints related to sexual harassment. Report.
During the period under review, your Company had not
of the Company is evaluated by the Department of Public
During the financial year 2023-24, one case was reported to
entered into any material transaction with any of its related 24.22 Extract of Annual Return
Enterprises vis-à-vis MOU entered into with the Government
IC of NTPC Barh, which was disposed of during the year
parties. The Company’s major related party transactions are
of India. financial year 2023-24. Further, one more case was disposed Annual Return pursuant to Section 92 (3) of the Companies
generally between NTPC and its Group Companies. In line
(In terms of Regulation 25 of SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015, of during the financial year 2023-24, which was reported to Act, 2013, read with Section 134(3)(a) and rule 12(1) of the
with the Statutory enactments, Policy on Materiality of
the performance of the Board as a whole and non- NTPC Bongaigaon in the Financial year 2022-23. Company (Management & Administration) Rules, 2014 for
Related Party Transactions and also on Dealing with Related
the Financial Year ended 31st March 2024 is available on the
independent directors including Chairman & Managing
Party Transactions of the Company has been revised and
Company’s website i.e www.ntpc.co.in/compliances
Director were evaluated by the Independent Directors in a
approved by the Board during the year 2023-24 and is
separate Meeting held by them on 14th March 2024.
uploaded on the Company’s website under the ‘Investors’
section at www.ntpc.co.in.
170 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 171
24.23 Credit Rating GoI MoU 2023-24 was signed between NTPC and Ministry of of ` 22,360 crore through GeM for MDO packages of procurement from SC/ ST MSE vendors was ` 25.91 crore
Power on consolidated basis. The key achievements against Talaipalli and Badam Coal Mines. and Woman MSE vendors was ` 102.33 crore. Total
Your Company’s financial discipline and prudence is reflected
the targets of MoU 2023-24 are as under: Procurement* during the financial year 2023-24 by NTPC
in the strong credit ratings ascribed by rating agencies. The • Trade Receivables: As on 31st March 2024, trade
& its subsidiaries stands at ` 20,241.53 crore.
details of credit ratings are disclosed in the Management • Revenue from Operations: Your Group company has receivables amounted to ` 34,637.22 crore. Trade
Discussion and Analysis Report, which forms part of the achieved highest ever Revenue from operations of receivables include unbilled revenue amounting to *Excluding Primary fuel, Secondary fuel, steel, cement, project procurement
Annual Report. ` 1,78,501 crore during financial year 2023-24. ` 15,177.77 crore billed, to the beneficiaries after 31st including Renovation & Modernization and procurement from Original
Equipment Manufacturer (OEM)/ Original Equipment Supplier (OES)/ Proprietary
March 2024. Excluding the unbilled revenue, trade
24.24 Reporting of frauds by Auditors • Power Generation: Your company has registered a Article Certificate (PAC) as per Order of the Development Commissioner, Ministry
receivables are equivalent to 40 days of Revenue from of MSME vide letter No. F. No. 21(9)/2017-MA(Pt-I) (E-17230) dated 31.08.2021.
generation of 3,88,451 MUs (including generation from
According to the information and explanations given to us Operations as on 31st March 2024.
NTPC Subsidiaries and excluding NTPC JV companies) Symposium/ conference on health issues for
and as represented by the Management and based on our
with a growth of 6.3%. NTPC generation mix includes Expenditure on Research & Development/ Innovations employees: Occupational health and safety at workplace
examination of the books and records of the Company and
generation from Thermal, Hydro and RE sources. Initiatives: Your Company understands the importance is one of the prime concerns for your company. Utmost
in accordance with generally accepted auditing practices in
of Research and Development (R&D) in the ever- importance is given to provide safe working environment
India, no case of material fraud by the Company or on the • Financial Ratios: Your Company has strong financial
changing dynamics of the energy sector coupled with and to inculcate safety awareness among the employees.
Company has been noticed or reported during the year. systems in place. It believes in prudent management of
energy transition. In this regard, Your Company is focused There were a total of 6 different conferences and
its financial resources and strives to reduce the cost of
During the year under review, neither the statutory auditors on research and development of innovative solutions in symposiums organized on health-related issues and
capital. It has robust financials leading to strong cash
nor the secretarial auditor has reported to the audit the domain of CCUS, Green Fuel, Green Fertilizer & awareness for NTPC employees and their families during
flows which are being progressively deployed in
committee, under Section 143 (12) of the Companies Act, Energy Storage. This will help the company to steer itself the financial year.
generating assets. Your Company has a strong balance-
2013, any instances of fraud committed against your on the pathway of green energy transition. The total
sheet coupled with low gearing and healthy coverage • Centralized Expert Safety Audit and Internal
Company by its officers or employees, the details of which expenditure on R&D/ Innovations Initiatives during the
ratios. As a result, your Company has been able to raise Benchmarking of NTPC: Your company has conducted a
would need to be mentioned in the Director’s report. financial year stands at ` 483.63 crore.
resources for its expansion projects at very competitive centralized Expert audit in 37 NTPC operating stations
24.25 Compliance with Secretarial Standards interest rates in domestic as well international market. • Performance on Stock Exchanges: Your company has during the financial year 2023-24. This coupled with an
Your Company is in compliance with the applicable Secretarial With respect of GoI MoU your company has achieved outperformed BSE 500 index during the financial year. internal benchmarking completed by 25th January 2024,
Standards issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of following ratios. The Market Capitalisation on BSE exchange improved provided insight of Safety Management across these
India and approved by the Central Government under Section EBITDA as a Return on Asset during the financial year from ` 1,69,934.07 crore to Stations seen through common lens and fostered a
118(10) of the Companies Act, 2013. percentage of Capital Turnover ` 3,25,759.50 crore. Your company has paid a total of culture of competitive improvement in safety standards
` 7,272.50 crore as dividends to the shareholders. Further among NTPC stations.
24.26 Key Financial Ratios Revenue Employed Ratio
Interest and redemption on Bonus debenture paid to
24.29 Proceeding pending under the Insolvency and
Key Financial Ratios for the financial year ended 31st March 30.58% 11.03% 37.73% shareholders during the financial year was ` 4,818.94
Bankruptcy Code, 2016
2024, have been provided under Note 76 of the Notes to the • CAPEX: crore.
During the year under review, no application was made or
Accounts of the Standalone Financial Statement and in the
• Asset Monetization: The asset monetization target given
Your company has incurred a CAPEX of ` 35,971 crore any proceeding pending under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy
Management Discussion Analysis Report placed at Annexure-
including CAPEX of JVs and Subsidiaries of your company to your company is of ` 15,000 crore to be achieved by Code, 2016 during the financial year 2023-24.
I and forming a part of the Directors’ Report.
FY25. A total of 15 RE assets of 2,861 MW capacity have
for the year 2023-24 on accrual basis.
24.27 Consumption of Imported Goods (On consolidated been hived-off from NTPC’s Balance Sheet and balance 24.30 One-time Settlement and Valuation
• TReDS Portal:
basis) outstanding liability of 15 RE assets transferred to NGEL During the financial year 2023-24, no event has taken place
Your Company has onboarded Trade Receivable has been repaid by NGEL to NTPC to the extent of ` 3,410 that give rise to reporting of details w.r.t. difference between
The consumption of imported goods for your Group
electronic Discounting System (TReDS) portals. TReDS is crore during financial year 2023-24. amount of the valuation done at the time of onetime
companies is as follows:
an institutional mechanism set up in order to facilitate Further, NTPC coal mine developed under Mine settlement and the valuation done while taking loan from
Import FY 2023-24 FY 2022-23 the discounting of trade receivables of MSMEs from Developer and Operator (MDO) route and awarded to the Banks or Financial Institutions.
Consumption (````` Crore) (````` Crore) corporate buyers through invoice discounting by multiple
MDO for operation and development of coal Mines have 24.31 Information on Differently Abled persons & Statistical
Coal 12,771.30 25,056.19 financiers avoiding any procedural time lag, on been considered as Asset Monetization under the ambit information on persons belonging to Scheduled Caste
acceptance of invoice by corporate buyers. Being a
Others Spares 94.29 78.01 of National Monetization Pipeline. Hence, MDO contracts / Scheduled Tribe categories.
responsible company, it is ensured that payments to
awarded for Talaipalli and Badam mines of NTPC during
Total Import 12,865.59 25,134.20 MSEs are prompt, and hence only a few MSE vendors Pursuant to DPE guidelines, information required on
financial year 2023-24 worth ` 4,890 crore are also
uploaded their bills in TReDS portal for processing. The Differently Abled persons & Statistical information on persons
considered under the total monetization target of your
24.28 Government of India (GoI) Memorandum of Acceptance/ Rejection of invoices of Goods & Services belonging to Scheduled Caste / Scheduled Tribe categories
company.
Undertaking (MoU) 2023-24 Achievements of the same were ensured for 99.17% of the invoices are given as per Annexure-IV & V.
• Procurement from MSEs: The Government of India has
GoI MoU is an agreement between the management of the within the stipulated timeline in the portal. 24.32 Other Information
notified the Public Procurement Policy for Micro and
Central Public Sector Enterprises (CPSEs) and the Government
• Procurement from GeM: Your company has registered a
Small Enterprises (MSEs) Order, 2012. Your company has Information on Number of Meetings of the Board held during
of India. MoU is a major policy initiative of the Government
procurement of Goods & Services worth ` 14,716.07 registered a procurement of Goods & Services worth the year, composition of committees of the Board and their
of India to undertake regular performance evaluation of
crore from GeM Portal (including procurement by NTPC
` 10,109.55 crore from MSE vendors out of which meetings held during the year, a chart or a matrix setting out
CPSEs and enhancing the performance levels of the CPSEs.
Subsidiaries). This excludes the one-time procurement
172 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 173
the skills/expertise/competence of the board of directors, The Board welcomes Shri K. Shanmugha Sundaram and Shri financial controls are adequate and were operating instrumental in achieving the Company’s successes during
Total fees for all services paid by the listed entity and its Ravindra Kumar on the Board of your Company. effectively; and the financial year under review.
subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, to the statutory auditor
24.34 Energy Conservation, Technology Absorption and 6. that the proper system has been devised to ensure The Directors also express their gratitude to the shareholders,
and all entities in the network firm/network entity of which
Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo compliance with the provisions of all applicable laws and as well as to various international and Indian banks and
the statutory auditor is a part, Details of utilization of funds
that such systems were adequate and operating financial institutions, for their continued confidence in the
raised through preferential allotment or qualified institutions Energy conservation is a top priority in the Company’s
effectively. Company.
placement as specified under Regulation 32(7A), if any, operations. Continuous monitoring of all units ensures
establishment of vigil mechanism/ whistle blower policy and ongoing performance assessments, and efforts are made to The Board appreciates the valuable contributions of
27. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
web-links for familiarization/ training policy of directors, achieve continuous improvement by integrating the latest contractors, vendors, and consultants in the implementation
Policy on Materiality of Related Party Transactions and also technologies and global best practices. Throughout the The Directors of your Company extend their sincere of various Company projects.
on Dealing with Related Party Transactions and Policy for financial year, various energy conservation measures were appreciation for the cooperation received from the
We also acknowledge the constructive suggestions received
determining ‘Material’ Subsidiaries have been provided in implemented across the power plants and stations, resulting Government of India, especially the Prime Minister’s Office,
from the Office of the Comptroller & Auditor General of India,
the Report on Corporate Governance, which forms part of in significant energy and monetary savings. the Ministry of Power, the Ministry of New & Renewable
the Statutory Auditors, and the Cost Auditors.
the Directors Report at Annexure-II. Energy, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Environment,
In accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013,
Forests & Climate Change, the Ministry of Coal, the Ministry Furthermore, we extend our heartfelt appreciation to the
24.33 Change in Board of Directors & Key Managerial and rules notified thereunder, the details relating to Energy
of Petroleum & Natural Gas, the Ministry of Railways, the entire NTPC family for their tireless efforts and contributions
Personnel (KMP) Conservation, Technology Absorption and Foreign Exchange
Ministry of Corporate Affairs, the Ministry of Labour and at all levels, ensuring the Company’s continued growth and
Earnings and Outgo are annexed as Annexure-III to the
During the financial year 2023-24, the following changes Employment, the Central Board of Direct Taxes, the Central excellence.
Report.
occurred in the Board / Key Managerial Personnel of the Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs, GST authorities, the
Company: - Department of Public Enterprises, the Department of For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
25. MATERIAL CHANGES AND COMMITMENTS
Investment and Public Asset Management, the Central
1. Shri Shivam Srivastava (DIN: 10141887) was appointed AFFECTING FINANCIAL POSITION BETWEEN THE
Electricity Authority, the Central Electricity Regulatory Sd/-
as Director (Fuel) w.e.f. 30th April 2023. END OF THE FINANCIAL YEAR AND DATE OF THE
Commission, the Comptroller & Auditor General of India, the (Gurdeep Singh)
2. Shri K. Shanmugha Sundaram (DIN: 10347322) has been REPORT. Appellate Tribunal for Electricity, State Governments, Chairman & Managing Director
appointed as Director (Projects) w.e.f. 1st December 2023. There have been no material changes and commitments Regional Power Committees, State Utilities, Stock exchanges,
3. Shri Ujjwal Kanti Bhattacharya (DIN: 08734219) ceased which affect the financial position of the Company, that have governments of various countries, and the Office of the Place: New Delhi
to be Director (Projects) of the Company w.e.f. 30th occurred between the end of the financial year to which the Attorney General of India. Their active support has been Date : 2 August 2024
November 2023 on attainting the age of Superannuation. financial statements relate and the date of this report.
4. Shri Ashish Upadhyaya (DIN: 06855349) ceased to be
26. DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
Govt. Nominee Director of the Company w.e.f. 31st
As required under Section 134(3)(c) & 134(5) of the
December 2023 due to Change in nomination by Ministry
of Power. Companies Act, 2013, your Directors confirm: The Particulars of annexure forming part of this report areas are as under:
1. that in the preparation of the annual accounts for the
5. Shri Ramesh Babu V. (DIN: 08736805) ceased to be Particulars Annexure
financial year ended 31st March 2024, the applicable
Director (Operations) of the Company w.e.f. 31st January
accounting standards had been followed along with Management Discussion & Analysis Report I
2024 on attainting the age of Superannuation.
proper explanation relating to material departures. Report on Corporate Governance II
6. Shri Ravindra Kumar (DIN: 10523088) has been 2. that such accounting policies were selected and applied
Information on conservation of energy, technology absorption and foreign exchange earnings and outgo III
appointed as Director (Operations) w.e.f. 26th February them consistently and such judgments and estimates
2024. were made that are reasonable and prudent so as to give Statistical information on persons belonging to Scheduled Caste / Scheduled Tribe categories IV
7. Shri Arun Kumar ceased to be the Company Secretary of a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company Information on Differently Abled persons V
the Company on 29th January 2024. Ms. Ritu Arora was as at 31st March 2024 and of the profit of the company Annual Report on CSR Activities VI
for the financial year ended on that date;
appointed as Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
Project Wise Ash produced and utilized VII
w.e.f. 29th January 2024. 3. that the proper and sufficient care has been taken for
the maintenance of adequate accounting records in Disclosure of Related Party Transactions in Form AOC-2 VIII
After the closure of financial year 2023-24 Shri Dillip Kumar
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act,
Patel (DIN: 08695490) ceased to be Director (HR) of the Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report for the financial year 2023-24 IX
2013, for safeguarding the assets of the company and
Company w.e.f. 30th April 2024 on attainting the age of Secretarial Audit Report in Form MR-3 X
for preventing and detecting fraud and other
Superannuation.
irregularities;
The Board wishes to place on record its deep appreciation
4. that the Annual Accounts have been prepared on a going
for the valuable services rendered by Shri Ujjwal Kanti
concern basis.
Bhattacharya, Shri Ashish Upadhyaya, Shri Ramesh Babu V.
and Shri Dillip Kumar Patel during their association with the 5. that internal financial controls to be followed by the
Company. company had been laid down and that such internal
174 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 175
Annexure - I to Directors’ Report • Strategic Interventions for Green Hydrogen Transition • Conventional capacity addition was 7426 MW during
(SIGHT) Programme to stimulate the growth of the green FY24 as compared to 1580 MW during the previous year.
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
hydrogen value chain in India. This includes:
• With the addition of 18485 MW, the renewable energy
 SIGHT I - Incentive scheme for electrolyser capacity has reached 190 GW (including large hydro) at
manufacturing the end of FY24, an increase of about 10% over the
ECONOMIC AND SECTOR OUTLOOK To meet these challenges and move ahead with the
previous year.
decarbonization of the economy, Government of India has  SIGHT II - Incentive scheme for green hydrogen
The global economy remains uncertain, marked by ongoing
taken several initiatives in FY24, key among them are: production • With an addition of 14203 Ckms of transmission lines,
wars, conflicts, and the emergence of new flashpoints around
total installed transmission capacity reached 485544
the world, which cast a shadow on the macroeconomic Power Sector Reforms • Green National Repowering & Life Extension Policy for
Ckms as on FY24 end.
outlook. Despite this global uncertainty, the Indian economy • Indian Electricity Grid Code Regulations (IEGC), 2023 Wind Power Projects - 2023
has performed remarkably well in recent years. India • Waiver of the ISTS charges on offshore wind, green • 70728 MVA of transformer capacity was added during
remained the fastest growing large economy with GDP growth • Introduction of Time-of-Day tariff hydrogen, and ammonia projects FY24 as against 75902 MVA in FY23.
at 8.2%, 8.1%, 8.4% and 7.8% during Q1, Q2, Q3 and Q4 of • Guidelines to promote development of Pump Storage • PLF of coal and lignite-based stations increased to 69.49%
• Introduction of Green Hydrogen Standard for India
FY24 respectively. Yearly GDP growth rate during FY24 stood Projects (PSP) in FY24 from 64% in FY23.
at 8.2%, as compared to 7% in FY23. International Monetary • MOP draft Notification on Renewable Generation
• Electricity (Late Payment Surcharge and Related Matters) • The energy deficit stands at 0.3% lower than previous
Fund (IMF) has made mild growth projection for most of the Obligation
(Amendment), 2024 year deficit of 0.5%. Further, peak demand deficit has
economies across the world, however it expects India to show
• Viability Gap Funding for development of Battery Energy also decreased to 1.2% from 4% on YoY basis.
strong growth of 6.8% in FY25 and 6.5% in FY26. • Phasing plan for implementation of flexible operation of
Storage Systems (BESS)
coal-based units. • For FY24, Peak demand met registered a growth of 13%
Based on the Indices of Industrial Production (IIP), electricity
• Offshore Wind Energy Lease Rules, 2023 at 239931 MW, as compared to 211856 MW in FY23.
sector has shown a growth of 7.1% over the last fiscal. This • Electricity (Rights of Consumers) Amendment Rules, 2023
While Maximum energy demand met stood at 5224 MUs,
growth is higher when compared to IIP for manufacturing of • Allocation of CPSU to States/UTs for Rooftop Solar
Renewable Energy Promotion
as compared to 4722 MUs achieved in FY23.
5.5% but is slightly lower when compared to mining which implementation
With a commitment to increase non-fossil fuel-based energy
registered a growth of 7.5%. Existing Installed Capacity
capacity to 500 GW by 2030, India added 18 GW of renewable INDUSTRY STRUCTURE AND DEVELOPMENTS
FY24 has seen India’s Power Sector achieving new milestones The total installed capacity (including renewables) in the
energy in FY24 showcasing a 20% YoY growth over 15 GW RE
The power sector is one of the key enablers of India’s
and meeting the aspirations of a rapidly growing nation. country as on 31 March 2024 was 441970 MW with the
capacity installed in FY23, 360 BUs of power was generated economic growth. Electricity contributes ~22% in the final
While peak demand touched 243 GW (13% higher than FY23), Private Sector contributing 52% of the installed capacity while
from renewable energy sources (including large hydro)
energy consumption of India. The sector with its three pillars:
peak demand met almost touched a new high of 240 GW. both State and Central Sector contributing 24% each.
present across India to cater to increasing renewable power
Generation, Transmission, and Distribution, is crucial to India’s
With the gross generation of 1739 BUs (7% growth), peak
demand. Coupled with technology improvement and infrastructure and economic growth. The global stature of Sector Total Capacity % Share
shortage has reduced to 1.4% (3340 MW) from 4.0% (8657
enabling government initiatives, growth of RE for India is the Indian Power Sector is depicted well by its positioning in (MW)
MW) in the previous year. Aided by addition of more than 18
expected to be exponentially high. CEA in its National
GW of RE capacity, India continued its stride in the terms of generation capacity. Private 229847 52%
Electricity Plan has projected India’s RE based requirement
Renewables. The share of RE capacity crossed 43% (including to be 336 GW by FY27 and around 596 GW by FY32. As of India is ranked 3rd in the world in terms of electricity State 107670 24%
large Hydro) of the total installed capacity in FY24. generation and 4th in terms of total renewable capacity
FY24 end, renewable energy was contributing around to 21% Central 104453 24%
installed after China, US, and Brazil. Our world ranking in
Amid these developments, universal access to affordable and of total power production in India. As India has committed
Wind, Solar and Hydro installed capacity is 4th, 5th and 6th Total 441970 100%
consistent power supply remains the primary goal for the to achieve Net Zero by 2070, it has laid out corresponding
respectively as reported by international agencies like IEA,
Power Sector. To meet this goal, fuel security and affordability policies to create synergic effect which in turn will increase
Statista, IRENA etc. The achievements and various issues/ Source-wise installed capacity in the country as of 31 March
remains the prime challenge on the supply side, whereas renewable energy demand. With providing Viability Gap
challenges faced by the Power Sector and key initiatives taken 2024 is as under:
financial health of the DISCOMS and demand side Funding (VGF) for BESS and laying out pathway for green
by the Ministry of Power are discussed in the following
management remains the prime challenge on the delivery Hydrogen and offshore wind, GOI is increasing the Mode Total Capacity % Share
paragraphs.
side. possibilities of large-scale capacity growth of renewable (MW)
power, helping the renewable sector and related
The government has implemented proactive measures and SNAPSHOT 2023-24 Thermal 243217 55%
organizations.
policy initiatives to ensure sufficient fuel stocks. These include
• Gross generation of the country (including imports from Nuclear 8180 2%
modifications to the SHAKTI Policy and strategic imports. GOI has taken the following new initiatives to promote RE
Bhutan) increased from 1624 BUs in the previous year
Hydro 46928 11%
Introduction of Time-of-Day tariff, smart metering, and capacity addition:
to 1739 BUs, registering a growth of about 7%.
Revamped Distribution Sector Scheme (RDSS) are also RES (Renewables) 143645 32%
• RE Bidding trajectory - As per the Bidding trajectory
• Generation from Renewable sources increased by about
gathering pace. However, further efforts are required for
finalized by the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy Total 441970 100%
11% from 203 BUs to 226 BUs, (excluding Large Hydro)
modernisation of the distribution sector through rapid
(MNRE), 50 GW of RE bids shall be issued each year from
while generation from conventional sources (Thermal,
adoption of smart grid technologies and digitalization of
FY24 to FY28, consisting of at least 10GW of Wind energy
Nuclear and Large Hydro including Bhutan import)
processes & customer interface. Additionally, ever increasing
capacity. The plan is in line with India’s target of 500 GW
increased by about 6.5% from 1421 BUs to 1513 BUs.
share of renewable energy into the grid, posed the challenge
of installed electricity capacity from non-fossil fuel
of grid stability.
(renewable energy and nuclear) sources by 2030.
176 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 177
Capacity Utilization and Generation the higher injection of renewable energy into the grid for • In FY23, performance of 32 Discoms have improvement f. Station Heat Rate Norm for coal-based units:
the transfer of power from RE-rich states to other states. over the last fiscal.
Sector-wise PLF in % (Coal-based) • 200 MW & 500 MW units - Reduced by 15 Kcal/
Further, to meet the power evacuation requirement of over • Cash Adjusted ACS-ARR gap per unit reduced from 79 kWh as compared to 2019-24 tariff period (New
Sector 2023-24 2022-23
500 GW RE Capacity planned by 2030, connectivity of RE paise/kWh in FY20, to 55 paise/kWh in FY23. norms 200 MW/500 MW 2415/2375 kcal/kWh).
Central 75.86 74.93 generators to the load centres through Inter-State
• AT&C losses have reduced from 16.2% in FY22 to 15.4% • Stations achieving COD on or after 1 April 2009 -
State 65.35 62.30 Transmission System (ISTS), is essential. It is estimated that
in FY23. 200 MW units 5% margin over design heat rate. 500
the length of the transmission lines and sub-station capacity
Private 64.17 61.61 MW & above units - Margin of 4.5% over design heat
required under ISTS for integration of additional wind and Power Trading
rate. Minimum boiler efficiency retained at 86%.
Private IPP 67.68 55.56 solar capacity by 2030 will be 50890 Ckms and 433575 MVA
In India, power is transacted largely through long-term Power
All India 69.49 64.00 respectively. Purchase Agreements (PPAs), entered between generating g. Auxiliary Energy Consumption (AEC) Norms - 200 MW
units - 8.5% (no change from 2019-24 tariff period), 500
Distribution companies and the distribution utilities. A small portion is
Generation transacted through various short-term (contract period<1 MW and above - 5.25% (reduced by 0.5% as compared
Distribution is the key link in realizing the Government of to 2019-24 tariff period).
Sector-wise and fuel-wise break up of conventional Year) mechanisms. This includes Day Ahead Market and Real-
India’s vision of supplying reliable 24x7 Power for All. In this
generation (BUs) for FY24 is detailed as under: Time Market (RTM), followed by bilateral contracts (through h. Gross Calorific Value (GCV) of Coal: GCV on ‘as received’
regard, the financial health of distribution companies is of
trades, term-ahead contracts on power exchanges, and basis along with margin of 85 Kcal/ Kg retained with third
Sector Thermal Hydro Nuclear Total prime importance, enabling them to efficiently discharge
directly between DISCOMs) and through Deviation party sampling by agency to be appointed by generating
their functions and responsibilities. However, their poor
Central 472 58 48 578 Settlement Mechanism (DSM). Around 88% of the power company as per guidelines issued by the Central
financial health has remained a matter of concern. To reverse
generated in the country is transacted through the long-term Government. In the absence of third-party sampling, GCV
State 404 62 — 466
this trend, reduction of AT&C losses and ACS (Average Cost
PPA route and about 12% of the power is transacted through as billed by coal company to be considered. In case of
Private 450 14 — 464 of Supply) - ARR (Average Revenue Realization) gap are critical
short-term trading mechanisms. coal from captive/integrated mine, the GCV of coal
factors. With these intentions, Revamped Distribution Sector
Bhutan Import — — — 5 received at the end use generating station shall be
Scheme (RDSS) has been launched to reinvigorate the
KEY INITIATIVES/REFORMS & REGULATORY CHANGES adjusted by 15 Kcal/Kg from the GCV measured at the
Total 1326 134 48 1513
DISCOMS. Important objectives of RDSS are:
IN THE POWER SECTOR mine end for every 100 km distance beyond 200 km, or
Sector-wise share in conventional installed capacity vis-a-vis • Reduction of AT&C losses to pan-India levels of 12-15% actual whichever is lower, subject to the condition that
SECTORAL REFORMS
share in conventional generation: by 2024-25. such an adjustment in aggregate shall not exceed 300
1. CERC Tariff Regulations, 2024-29 Kcal/Kg.
Share in installed Share in • Reduction of ACS-ARR gap to zero by 2024-25.
Sector capacity generation In March 2024, Central Electricity Regulatory Commission Other changes:
• Improvement in the quality, reliability, and affordability
(%) (%) (CERC) notified (Terms and Conditions) of Tariff
of power supply to consumers through a financially • Normative transit loss of 1% introduced for multi
Regulations, 2024-29. The salient features of these
Central 24% 38% sustainable and operationally efficient distribution modal transportation of coal by Road Cum Rail, Rail
Regulations are:
State 24% 31% sector. Ship Rail mode.
a. Rate of return on equity for thermal stations retained
Private 52% 31% This results-linked scheme, launched in July 2021, has pushed • Interest rate on working capital reduced by 0.25%.
at 15.5%.
the utilities and states to address performance gaps, and chart
• Specific Fuel oil consumption of 1.0 ml/kWh for
Electricity Consumption action plans to avail the benefits worth `300,000 crore. The b. Normative availability for recovery of Annual Fixed
front/rear/side fired boilers.
outlay includes an estimated Government Budgetary Support Charges (NAPAF) and Normative Annual Plant Load
The per capita consumption of power in India has reached
(GBS) of `97,631 crore. The Scheme is comprised of two Factor (NAPLF) for incentive for coal stations completing 2. Electricity (Late Payment Surcharge and Related
1327 units in FY23. It is still well below 50% of the global
components: 30 years from COD as on 31 March 2024 reduced to 83% Matters) (Amendment) 2024
average, providing enough room for growth.
from 85%.
• Part A: Financial support for Prepaid Smart Metering, MOP, vide notification in February 2024 amended LPS
Major end-users of power are broadly classified into 6
System Metering, and Up-gradation of Distribution c. Capacity charges to be recovered in two parts, namely, Rules 2022. As per amendment, the generating company,
categories: Agricultural, Commercial, Domestic, Industrial,
Infrastructure; and capacity charges for peak hours (4 hours in a day) and shall offer, any un-requisitioned surplus power (including
Traction, and others. Their shares of electricity consumption,
capacity charges for off-peak hours (20 hours in a day). the capacity under reserve shutdown), in the real-time
during FY23, were approximately 17.2%, 7.5%, 27.2%, 42.7%, • Part B: Training and capacity building and other enabling
High Demand & Low Demand season criteria for capacity market if such power offered is not cleared in the day
1.8% and 5.7%, respectively. During FY24, although absolute and supporting activities.
charge recovery removed. ahead market. Such offer of power shall be at a price
consumption of all the sectors has increased, the share of
Under this scheme Action Plans for 46 DISCOMs (28 States/ not exceeding 120% of its energy charges. Provided also
agriculture and domestic consumption in the total d. Incentive payable to thermal station on ex-bus
UTs) have been approved where around 20.46 crore pre-paid that if the generating company fails to do so, the un-
consumption has increased whereas for other sectors it has scheduled energy - During peak hours @ 75 paise/kWh
smart consumer meters, 54 Lakh smart DT meters and 1.98 requisitioned surplus power to the extent not offered in
decreased slightly. and during off peak hours @55 paise/kWh corresponding
Lakh smart feeder meters have been sanctioned. the power exchange up to the declared capacity shall
to the scheduled energy in excess of ex-bus energy
Transmission not be considered as available for the payment of fixed
The impact of these initiatives is reflected in the finding of corresponding to NAPLF achieved on cumulative basis.
charges.
The total inter-regional transmission capacity of the country the 12th Integrated Rating & Ranking of Power Distribution
e. Incentive for primary frequency response - Thermal
has increased to 112340 MW as on 31 March 2024. This Utilities. The key indicators of the improvement of Discoms 3. Indian Electricity Grid Code Regulations (IEGC) 2023
station shall be allowed an Incentive up to 1% of Annual
augmentation of the national grid is essential for supporting performances are as below:
Fixed Charges for providing primary frequency response. CERC notified IEGC-2023 in May 2023 and same has been
178 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 179
implemented w.e.f. 1 October 2023. Subsequently, CERC return when voltage is below 97% and for VAr drawal 6. Guidelines for Resource Adequacy planning framework consumers using State Transmission Utility network
has issued orders for removal of difficulties in the when voltage is above 103%. The charge for VArh of India on long-term basis or on General Network Access
implementation of IEGC 2023. shall be at the rate of 5 paise/kVArh escalated at 0.5 basis, as the case may be.
MOP released guidelines for resource adequacy
paise/kVArh per year thereafter.
The salient provisions of the new Grid Code Regulations framework of India on 28 June 2023, the salient features • Additional Surcharge: The additional surcharge
are: • Revision of DC shall be allowed on account of forced of guidelines are: levied on any Open Access Consumer shall not be
outage, only in case of bilateral transactions and more than the per unit fixed cost of power purchase
• Reference Frequency - 50.000 Hz (Resolution of • DISCOMs to supply 24 X 7 reliable power to its
not in case of collective transaction, as per of the distribution licensee.
0.001 Hz against existing 0.01 Hz). The allowable consumers. All DISCOMs are duty bound to tie up
following conditions:
band of frequency has been kept 49.900-50.050 sufficient capacity to meet the demand of its • Gap between approved Annual Revenue
(same as in earlier regulation). Unit Max daily Monthly Reason to be consumers. If any DISCOM does not do so, it is failing Requirement and estimated annual revenue from
Type revisions recorded in in its duty. approved tariff: The tariff shall be cost reflective and
• Minimum Turndown Level - For a unit of a regional
in DC writing there shall not be any gap between approved Annual
entity thermal generating station shall be 55% of • Compliance to the Resource adequacy norms and
Revenue Requirement and estimated annual
Maximum Continuous Rating (MCR) or such other Coal Plants 4 60 Partial outage Guidelines shall ensure that DISCOMs tie up
revenue from approved tariff except under natural
minimum power level as specified in the CEA of the unit or sufficient capacity to meet the demand of the area
calamity conditions.
Regulations as amended from time to time. variation of they are licensed to serve.
fuel quality or 8. Electricity (Rights of Consumers) Amendment Rules,
• Reserve Maximization - To maximize the reserves • The capacity which the DISCOMs tie up shall be a
any other 2023
in the grid, concept of Security Constrained Unit judicious mix of long/medium and short-term
technical
Commitment (SCUC) is introduced, which provides contracts to ensure security of supply to their MOP in June 2023 amended Electricity (Rights of
reason
that, some of the units which have received schedule consumers at least cost. Consumers) Rules, 2020. Key points of the amendment
Lignite, Gas 6 120 Partial outage
less than Minimum Turndown Level may be to rules are given below:
• The resource adequacy framework lays down the
based of the unit, fuel
committed by NLDC for running under SCUC based
optimal capacity mix required to meet the projected • Smart metering - All types of smart meters shall be
quality or
on its merit order. The generating stations or units
demand at minimum cost. New generation read remotely at least once in a day instead of
variations in
identified under SCUC, but not brought on bar under
capacities, energy storage and other flexible month. After the installation of smart meters, no
supply of gas or
SCUC, shall have the option to operate at a level
resources needed to reliably meet future demand penalty shall be imposed on the consumer, based
any other
below the minimum turn down level or to go under
growth at optimal cost to the system will be timely on the maximum demand recorded by the smart
technical
Unit Shut Down (USD). In case a generating station,
assessed. meter, for the period before the installation date. In
reason
or unit thereof, opts to go under USD, it shall fulfil
case maximum demand recorded by the smart
its obligation to supply electricity to its beneficiaries Hydro 6 120 Water • Guidelines provide for an institutional mechanism
meter exceeds the Sanctioned Load in a month, the
who had made requisition from the said generating availability & for Resource Adequacy ranging from National level
bill, for that billing cycle, shall be calculated based
station prior to it going under USD by arranging Partial outage to DISCOM level such that the availability of
on the actual recorded maximum demand.
supply either: resources to meet the demand is ensured at each
4. National Electricity Plan (NEP)
level. • Time of the Day Tariff - The Time of the Day tariff
a. by entering a contract(s) covered under the
Notified by CEA, for the period of 2022-32, it includes a introduced for Commercial and Industrial consumers
Power Market Regulation; or 7. Electricity (Amendment) Rules 2024: MOP has notified
detailed plan for the next five years (2022-27) and the having maximum demand more than 10 KW made
Electricity Amendment Rules 2024 in January 2024. The
b. by arranging supply from any other generating prospective plan for the subsequent five years (2027- effective from a date not later than 1 April 2024 and
salient features are:
station or unit thereof owned by such 32). According to the NEP, the projected all India peak for other consumers except agricultural consumers,
generating company; or electricity demand and electrical energy requirement is • Establishment, operation and maintenance of the Time of the Day tariff shall be made effective
277 GW and 1908 BU for the year 2026-27 and 366 GW dedicated transmission lines: A generating company not later than 1 April 2025. Time of the Day tariff
c. through Security Constrained Economic
and 2474 BU for the year 2031-32. or a person setting up a captive generating plant or shall be made effective immediately after installation
Dispatch (SCED).
an Energy Storage System or a consumer having load of smart meters, for the consumers with smart
5. Scheme for Operation of Gas Based Power (GBP) during
If a generator wants to retain its Declared Capability of not less than twenty-five Megawatt in case of Inter meters.
peak crunch period (10 April 2023 to 16 May 2023)
(DC) in the event of forced outage of a unit, the State Transmission System and ten Megawatt in case
generating company owning the generating unit The scheme envisaged power generation from gas of Intra-State Transmission System shall not be FUEL RELATED REFORMS
shall fulfil its supply obligation to the beneficiaries stations on RLNG fuel and to be sold through Power required to obtain license under the Act for
1. MOP modifies coal allocation methodology under
which made requisition from such generating unit. Exchange with shortfall between the cost of generation establishing, operating or maintaining a dedicated
SHAKTI Policy
and revenue received from Power exchange to be transmission line to connect to the grid.
• Mandated to provide Primary Reserve Ancillary
reimbursed from Power System Development Fund According to the modification, all power plants which
Service - The generating units thereof with • Charges for using network of State Transmission
(PSDF). CEA was made nodal agency for do not have PPAs, shall be allowed coal linkage for a
governors shall be under Free Governor Mode of Utilities: The charges for using State Transmission
operationalisation of scheme. Earlier CERC vide order period of minimum 3 months to maximum 1 year,
Operation (FGMO). Utility network by the consumers availing short-term
dated 16 February 2023 in Petition No. 359/MP/2022, provided further that the power generated through that
open access or Temporary-General Network Access
• Commercial settlement for reactive power - As per had introduced HP-DAM for gas-based generators, linkage is sold through any product in power exchanges
(GNA), as the case may be, shall not be more than
the provisions specified, the regional entity imported coal-based generators and Battery Energy or in short term through a transparent bidding process
one hundred ten per cent of the charges levied on
(including generating station) shall be paid for VAr storage systems. through DEEP portal.
180 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 181
2. Directions regarding import of coal b) Green Hydrogen/Green Ammonia Plants • Turbines reaching the end of their certified design 8. Strategic Interventions for Green Hydrogen Transition
commissioned on or before 31 December 2030, and life. (SIGHT)
To ensure uninterrupted power supply across the
which utilize renewable energy from Solar, Wind or
country, in view of constantly rising power demand, MOP • Turbines with a rated capacity below 2 MW • SIGHT I focuses on incentivizing domestic
Large Hydro, commissioned after 8 March 2019, or
in October 2023 gave directions to all GENCOs including (regardless of age). manufacturing of electrolyzers. With a budget of
Energy Storage Systems (ESS) (such as Pump Storage
Independent Power Producers (IPPs) for timely import `4,440 crore spread over five years, this scheme aims
Plants or Battery Energy Storage Systems) or any • Turbines after 15 years of operation (considered on
of coal for minimum blending @ 6% (by weight) till March to bridge the gap between the cost of imported and
hybrid combination of aforementioned a commercial or voluntary basis).
2024. Later this advisory was extended till June 2024. domestically produced electrolyzers.
technologies, for the production of Green Hydrogen
The estimated capacity of turbines is to increase by
3. CERC issues Order on Blending of imported coal with or Green Ammonia, shall be granted exemption from • SIGHT II directly targets green hydrogen production
1.5 times or above after repowering.
domestic coal to mitigate the domestic coal shortage. the payment of ISTS Charges for a period of 25 years, in India. This component boasts a larger budget of
starting from the date of commissioning of the 4. Viability Gap Funding for development of Battery `13,050 crore. It aims to maximize green hydrogen
Ministry of Power vide letter dated 9 January 2023,
project. Further, Plants commissioned after the Energy Storage Systems (BESS) and its derivatives production, making it cost-
directed the Central GENCOs, State GENCOs and IPPs to
take necessary action and immediately plan to import above-mentioned dates shall be levied ISTS charges In December 2023, the Union cabinet approved scheme competitive with fossil fuel-based alternatives.
coal through a transparent competitive procurement for as per the trajectory specified. for development of BESS which envisages development 9. Green Hydrogen Standard for India
blending at the rate of 6% by weight so as to have coal c) To promote the development of pump storage plants of 4 GWh of BESS projects by FY31, with financial support
To provide a clearer prospective on definition of
stocks at their power plants for smooth operation till (PSP), the criteria for availing the complete waiver of up to 40% of the total capex of project in the form of
Hydrogen and derivatives for National Green Hydrogen
September 2023, provided that in such case, prior of ISTS charges for PSP projects has now been linked VGF. In June 2021, GOI had introduced PLI scheme with
Mission to enable production of 5 MMT per annum by
permission from beneficiaries shall not be a precondition to the date of award of the project instead of an outlay of `18,100 crore for manufacturing of
2030, the standard redefined “Green Hydrogen” as,
for blending up to 6% by weight, unless otherwise agreed commissioning of the project. Waiver shall be Advanced Chemistry Cell (ACC) battery storage of 50
Hydrogen produced from renewable energy, including:
specifically in the power purchase agreement. applicable in certain cases. GWh capacity, out of which 30 GWh has been allocated
via competitive bidding process. • Production through electrolysis, where Green-house
4. Empanelment of Third-party sampling agency 2. MOP mandates Renewable Generation Obligation for
gas emission from water treatment, electrolysis gas
5. Offshore Wind Energy Lease Rules, 2023
coal and lignite-based power stations
M/s CSIR-CIMFR discontinued the works of Third-Party purification, drying and compression of Hydrogen
Sampling at loading and unloading end w.e.f. 11 In October 2023 MOP issued a draft notification on Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) notified rules for shall not be greater than 2 kg CO2 eq. per kg of H2
November 2023. To have additional third-party agencies Renewable Generation Obligation for coal and lignite- leasing the seabed for offshore wind power projects with produced.
other than CIMFR, Ministry of Power has empaneled 11 based power stations. The obligations vary depending the lease being valid for 3 years for resource
• Production from biomass conversion given that GHG
parties (through two rounds of empanelment) for on the station’s commercial operations start date. measurement, which can be further extended by an
emission footprint in the entire production process
sampling and testing of coal at the loading end, with the additional period for two years. For the construction and
choice of Coal Consumer for taking services from the
Commercial Minimum Due Date
operation of offshore wind energy farms, the lease period
shall not be greater than 2 kg CO2 eq. per kg of H2
Operation Date RGO (%) for RGO produced.
empaneled agencies. will be for 35 years, which can be extended further on a
of coal/lignite compliance
case-to-case basis. The area covered under a lease shall
5. Notification for Agro-residue Utilization by TPP Rules, based generating OPPORTUNITIES AND THREATS/CHALLENGES
ordinarily be 25 sq. km to 500 sq. km and the same may
2023 station
vary depending on the size of the project. OPPORTUNITIES
The Ministry of Power (MOP) has issued revised biomass On or before 6% 1 April 2026
6. Electricity Rules 2024 to speed up connections to India has been a key economic growth engine for the world,
policy in June 2023, which mandates that all thermal 31 March 2023
promote EVs & Solar PV Systems. contributing 16% to the global growth in 2023. As per the
power stations must co-fire 5% biomass pellets from FY25 10% 1 April 2028
Vision India @2047, Government has set a goal of making
& 7% from FY26. These guidelines also have a provision In February 2024, Electricity Rules 2024 were issued
1 April 2023 to 10% 1 April 2025 India a USD 30 trillion economy with per capita income
of benchmark price notification by MOP. Accordingly, providing amendments to the Electricity (Rights of
31 March 2025 moving to the developed economy zone (USD 18,000-20,000).
MOP announced benchmark price for NCR, WR & NR Consumers) Rules, 2020, aiming to simplify processes for
Hence the economy is poised to grow at a rapid pace. As
region in August & November 2023 respectively. Failure 1 April 2025 10% From COD of coal/ new electricity connections and rooftop solar
electricity is key input for all sectors of the economy, the
to meet the set targets will result in the imposition of onwards lignite based installations. Changes include defining terms “Owner”
demand for electricity is expected to grow proportionally.
Environmental Compensation at the specified rate generating station and “Resident Welfare Association”, setting timeframes
outlined in the regulations starting from FY25. for connection provision, and streamlining procedures Additionally, the growth will be driven by increased
Generators can meet RGO by establishing renewable
for rooftop solar. These adjustments prioritize consumer urbanization and electrification of other sectors. According
capacity or procuring and supplying renewable energy.
RENEWABLE ENERGY RELATED REFORMS convenience and promote renewable energy adoption. to CEA estimates, demand for electricity is expected to grow
There will be a penalty in case of a shortfall of RGO
at 6.7% till FY27 and at 5.3% till FY32.
1. Waiver of the ISTS charges on offshore wind, green compliance. 7. MNRE issued a scheme guideline for setting up
hydrogen and ammonia projects. Notified in May 2023, hydrogen hubs in India To meet this growing demand and parallelly addressing the
3. National Repowering & Life Extension Policy for Wind
GOI announced for Waiver of the ISTS charges for: climate concerns, India has set an ambitious target to install
Power Projects - 2023 MNRE issued guidelines for setting up of green hydrogen
500 GW of non-fossil energy by 2030, which includes 280
a) Offshore wind power projects commissioned on or hubs, the scheme acts as an extension of Green Hydrogen
In December 2023, MNRE floated a new policy which GW of solar power and 140 GW of wind power projects. This
before 31 December 2032 and established via PPAs Mission. The main objective of the scheme is to identify
allows developers to extend the lifespan of following requires an average annual addition of installed capacity of
or merchant basis, shall be granted exemption from and develop regions capable of supporting large scale
wind turbines: about 40-50 GW till 2030, providing a huge opportunity for
payment of ISTS Charges for 25 years, starting from production and/ or utilization of hydrogen as green
capacity expansion. In alignment with this, your Company
the date of commissioning of the project. • Non-compliant turbines (failing to meet quality hydrogen hubs.
control standards).
182 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 183
has set a target to increase its installed RE Capacity to 60 GW Chemicals utilization is leading to an increased demand c. Water technology related charges with neighbouring countries, Bangladesh,
by 2032. Along with clean power, the demand for the Green of renewable power. Bhutan, Nepal, and Myanmar. Following this, NVVN has
The projects being undertaken for producing clean water
Chemicals and energy storage system like Battery and signed an SNA agreement with Nepal Electricity Authority
NTPC is implementing pilots for green hydrogen blending from wastewater and to subsequently produce hydrogen
Pumped Hydro Storage will also rise rapidly, presenting huge and with Druk Green Power Corporation, Bhutan. SNA
with Piped Natural Gas (PNG) network. Green mobility are as follows:
opportunity in this space. agreement with Bangladesh Power Development Board
projects are aimed at finding the techno-economic
• Set up of 240 TPD Non-Thermal Forward Osmosis shall be signed shortly.
While RE capacity addition is rapidly increasing, the feasibility of Hydrogen buses for short & long haul.
plant at NTPC Mouda
seasonality, intermittent availability, and storage constraints Further, Green Hydrogen based microgrid project and NVVN has signed various Power Purchase Agreements
limit the actual generation and hence there is ample space locomotive(s) are at an advanced stage of planning. • Set up of 200 TPH Electrocoagulation System at NTPC with Bangladesh aggregating up to 742 MW power. NVVN
for thermal capacity addition as well. As per Government Solapur is also supplying 200 MW power to Haryana from Nepal
c. Energy Storage
estimates, an addition of around 80 GW of thermal capacity Electricity Authority. NVVN is exploring possibilities for
d. Ash Technology
is required by FY32 to meet the power demand and provide In National Electricity Plan, CEA has projected energy sale of power from NEA hydro power stations to BPDB
energy security to the nation. However, these capacities must storage capacity of 82.37 GWh by FY27 and 411.4 GWh • Set up of 30,000 M3/Year Fly Ash based FALG through Indian Grid.
be based on high efficiency and low emission technologies. (including PSP) by FY32. Advancement in BESS Aggregate Plant at NTPC Korba
NVVN has also been trading power with Nepal Electricity
At present, NTPC has around 10 GW of thermal capacity under technology (Li-ion, Na-ion, Ni-Cd, Flow batteries etc.) and • Light Weight Aggregate Plant at NTPC Sipat
Authority (NEA). NVVN has commenced the Cross-Border
construction. introduction of other potential storage methods like
3. E-Mobility Electricity Trade (CBET) in power exchange platform by
Hydrogen and Thermal storage can potentially catapult
Presently bulk of the power is purchased through the long supplying power to Nepal Electricity Authority through
the RE sector for further growth. The global energy Your Company envisions to provide zero emission
term PPA, but there is an increasing shift towards short term day ahead market platform of Power Exchange. This is a
storage market has seen growth in 2023, nearly tripling mobility solutions for public transport which includes
power procurement from power markets, OTC and bilateral first of its kind initiative that helped NVVN to further
to 45GW/97GWh. providing vehicles based on various technologies. Your
agreements by the DISCOMs. Hence power trading is also expand its cross-border portfolio. NEA through NVVN had
Company’s subsidiary NVVN has supplied 40 E-buses to
expected to grow at a brisk pace both domestically and across d. C&I customer for RE-RTC started export of hydro power to India through power
the Department of Transport Andaman & Nicobar (A&N)
the borders and your Company has a significant presence in exchange market.
With increase in demand of renewable energy, C&I
and 90 E-buses to Bengaluru Metropolitan Transport
this area. These opportunities coupled with the supportive
customer preference is shifting towards RE-RTC (Round Corporation. The buses in A&N are under commercial 5. International Business
policy framework in Renewable Energy Sector, Green
the Clock) power. With advent of domestic cloud storage
operation for last 3 years and have logged approximately
chemical and fuels, E-mobility, Power trading, is leading to Your Company, building on the proven project
as well as AI, there shall be a high demand for RE power
6 million kms. Buses in Bangalore are also under
new business development domestically as well as management and O&M experience with an expanding
from data centers. NTPC has also tied up with C&I
commercial operation and have travelled more than 10
internationally, as elaborated below. power generation portfolio, has made a global presence
Customers for supply of RE-RTC.
million kms till 31 March 2024.
in various countries as below:
1. Renewable Energy
2. Carbon Capture and Utilization, Green Chemicals and
Towards achieving Carbon-Neutral Ladakh, your
a. Project Development
a. Solar Technologies Green Fuels Company is setting up Hydrogen Fuelling Station, Solar
Bangladesh-India Friendship Power Company Private
Solar PV modules technology has shifted from poly Your Company is exploring opportunities in the domain Plant and providing five Fuel Cell buses for operation on
Limited: This 50:50 joint venture company, formed with
crystalline to mono crystalline modules having higher of carbon capture and utilization, green hydrogen, green intracity routes of Leh. The first-of-its-kind Green
the Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB),
efficiency and wattage and now with advent of Topcon fuel, and green chemicals. Salient projects in these areas Hydrogen Mobility Project at 11562 ft. is co-located with
commissioned a coal-based power plant of 1,320 MW
modules with even higher efficiency, it is possible to are listed below: dedicated Solar plant of 1.7 MW for providing renewable
capacity at Rampal (Khulna) christened as ‘Maitree Super
power. A unique feature of this project is that the fuel
generate more power in same footprint area enabling
a. Carbon Capture & Utilization (CCU) Thermal Power Plant’. The first unit of 660 MW is under
cell buses are designed for operation in sub-zero
further growth of solar parks and utility scale projects.
commercial operation since December 2022. The second
The projects undertaken under CCU are as follows: temperatures in rarefied atmosphere, which is typical
Further increasing use of Bi-facial modules and solar
unit was declared COD w.e.f. 12 March 2024.
for high altitude locations. A similar Green Hydrogen
tracker, has reduced the inherent variations in solar • 10 TPD Flue Gas CO2 to Methanol plant at NTPC
power generation which has been the biggest drawback Vindhyachal Mobility Project is under implementation at Greater Trincomalee Power Company Limited (TPCL): TPCL (A
for solar power. The inverter capacity per block has Noida for supplying green hydrogen for running five 50:50 JV between NTPC Ltd and Ceylon Electricity Board
increased to 4.4 MW, enabling, higher conversion ratios
• 10 TPD Flue Gas CO2 to Ethanol plant at NTPC Lara
FCEVs for long haul transport. (CEB), Sri Lanka) is developing a 50 MW (extendable to
and reducing capital expenditure. Government has
• Study on CO2 Geological Storage Potential in Cat-1
4. Cross Border Power Trading 120 MW) solar power project at Sampur, Sri Lanka, for
Coal Fields
allocated, around 40 GW of domestic Solar PV module which JVSHA has been signed on 11 March 2022.
The guidelines issued by MOP, and CERC regulations for
manufacturing capacity under PLI (Tranche-II) in March • CO2 based Carbonated Coarse Aggregate Project
b. PMC consultancy work with International Solar Alliance
cross-border trading of power have opened
2023. This shall boost domestic module availability and
b. Green Hydrogen technology opportunities to export power to neighbouring countries. Your Company is associated as a corporate partner with
support capacity addition programme.
The projects undertaken for producing green hydrogen Presently, India exports electricity to Nepal, Bangladesh, International Solar Alliance (ISA) and has been awarded
b. Green Hydrogen Technologies are as follows: and Myanmar. India imports power from Nepal and the following Project Management Consultancy (PMC)
With advancements in Green Hydrogen production Bhutan but exports power during the lean hydro season. jobs abroad:
• Set up of 25KWe Green Hydrogen Grid at NETRA
Your Company’s subsidiary NVVN has been assigned the
technology, in various Electrolyzers (PEM, AEM, alkaline,
• ISA Solar Park PMC assignment (ISA Program-06)
• Setup of 1 TPD Sea Water to Green Hydrogen Plant role of Nodal Agency for cross-border trading of power
and Solid Oxide), Hydrogen from biomass etc. value to
at NTPC Simhadri by GOI. NVVN has also been nominated as Settlement Appointed as PMC consultant for implementation
cost of production of Green Hydrogen is decreasing.
Nodal Agency (SNA) for the settlement of Grid operation- of 6.6 GW Projects in various countries, NTPC’s
Further increasing thrust in Green Hydrogen/Green
184 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 185
mandate is to structure projects, tendering for commissioned. Projects in other 5 countries are in • MOU with Nepal Electricity Authority (NEA), Nepal Your Company aims to enhance the overall efficiency of
selection of developers on behalf of the countries various stages of implementation. in January 2024 for the co-operation in the its coal plants, thereby achieving a substantial reduction
and oversee the construction activities till successful
c. Other Consultancy assignments secured:
renewable power projects including Hydro power in CO2 emissions. Adoption of USC parameters shall result
commissioning. More countries are being plants and capacity building initiatives. in substantial reduction of CO2 emission when compared
approached for assignments on similar lines. Your Company has secured several consultancy to conventional subcritical power plants for every unit
e. Training and Capability Building Programs
assignments through competitive bidding which are in of electricity generated.
Country Capacity
various stages of development. Your Company is actively engaged with stakeholders
7. Consultancy
Togo 250 MW across the globe to run capability building programs for
• Mauritius: Execution of a consultancy assignment
the power sector officials. Such training programs are NTPC’s wealth of knowledge, experience, expertise, and
Mali 500 MW for 2 MW Floating Solar PV Plant at Tamarind Falls
strategic in nature as these shall not only create increased brand image in the entire value chain of power
Malawi 100 MW Reservoir in Mauritius by CEB Mauritius is underway.
outreach and goodwill for your Company but also may generation business positions us as the preferred
1st phase of the assignment has been completed and
Niger 50 MW generate various business prospects through people-to- Consultant for providing consultancy services in power
PMC services for 2nd phase are in progress.
people networking. generation and related areas. NTPC Consultancy offers
Cuba 1150 MW
Your Company won the consultancy assignment of comprehensive services in conventional and renewable
Your Company has provided training to over 250 power
Paraguay 500 MW a 30 MW Floating Solar Project in Mauritius through power generation, providing value-added solutions
sector professionals from various countries (including
Ethiopia 410 MW International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in February tailored to the specific needs of its clients within the
Myanmar, Cambodia, Maldives, Sri Lanka, Costa Rica,
2024. The assignment includes the Feasibility Report power sector and beyond.
Zambia 400 MW Mongolia, Mauritius, Guyana, Peru, Vietnam, Kenya,
preparation and Conceptual Design Report for 30
Nigeria, Kyrgyzstan etc.) under the aegis of Indian NTPC Consultancy provides a range of offerings,
Venezuela 2000 MW MW Floating Solar PV at Tamarind Falls Reservoir
Technical and Economic Cooperation Program (ITEC), including:
Guinea Bissau 60 MW and a Grid Integration study of a Floating Solar, Wind
Ministry of External Affairs, GOI.
and Battery Storage System. • Owner’s Engineer Services: NTPC Offers concept to
DR Congo 1000 MW
In February 2024, Your Company has secured assignment commissioning services through Owner’s Engineer
• Kuwait: Your Company (in Consortium with Local
Nicaragua 100 MW for the Capacity Building Program on Combined Cycle Assignment in conventional as well as renewable
Party) has emerged L1 during the financial bid
Power Plant (CCPP) for the power sector professionals energy systems, encompassing:
Republic of Guinea 100 MW opening of the Ministry of Electricity, Water and
of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation Limited
Total 6620 MW Renewable Energy’s (MEWRE) tender for  Prefeasibility, feasibility studies, Pre-award
(NNPCL). Training of the 1st batch has been successfully
comprehensive maintenance of Sabiya Stage-1 services including Bid process management and
Cuba: Post identification of L1 developer, completed in April 2024.
CCGT, Kuwait. The proposal is currently under post award engineering services including
Negotiations for the Phase-I of 60 MW Solar PV Park
evaluation with Central Agency for Public Tenders In February 2024, Your Company has been awarded the inspection.
Project in Cuba (extendable to 360MW), between
(CAPT), Kuwait. contract against RFP for “Hiring of Agency for Delivering
L1 developer and UNE (Cuban Govt appointed entity  Project Management, Site Supervision,
in-person training in Bangladesh”, by the International
for the project), is underway. • Jordon/Togo: Your Company has provided O&M assistance in commissioning and PG Test
Solar Alliance (ISA). The assignment consists of delivering
audit services to AMEA Power for 66 MWp Solar PV
• Rooftop Solar Projects (ISA Program-04) four training programs on topics including “Small-scale • Quality Assurance & Inspection Services: NTPC’s
plant in Jordan and 50 MWp Solar PV in Togo. The
Solar Rooftop systems” and “Mini grids”. stringent Quality Management System, Vendor
Your Company is providing PMC services for assignments have been successfully completed.
assessment process, inspection offices all over India
implementation of 100kW Roof Top Solar Project in f. Other Initiatives
• Oman: Your Company has provided Pre-bid and capability to undertake inspections abroad with
Ethiopia & Sao Tome. Selection of EPC Agency for
engineering support services in Oman for A’Saffa Your Company is also exploring investment opportunities experienced professionals help client to achieve high
execution of the Roof Top Solar Project, Ethiopia is
Poultry’s 7 MW Solar Project and Solar Wadi’s 86 in the Renewable Energy and consultancy opportunities quality standards.
underway.
MW Solar Project. The assignment has been in the areas of PMC, O&M services, R&M of power plants,
• Operation & Maintenance of Power Plants: NTPC
• ISA 27 Demonstration Projects: successfully completed. capability building, etc. in the regions such as the Middle
offers a bouquet of O&M services including:
East, Southeast Asia, CIS regions, Latin America, and
Your Company has been appointed as Project • Nepal: Your Company has been awarded three
Africa.  O&M advisory services of power plants
Management Consultant (PMC) for implementation contracts for vetting of Detailed Project Reports
including comprehensive O&M services and
of solarization projects in 10 countries (Viz. (DPR) of transmission line and substation projects 6. Efficiency improvement
O&M management services like Technical
Seychelles, Senegal, Djibouti, Cuba, Ethiopia, through Exim Bank’s GOI supported Line of Credit
Your Company has laid major stress on the efficient Audits, Performance Improvement Services,
Suriname, Burundi, Mozambique, Malawi & Uganda) (GOI-LOC) of USD 750 Mn. to the Government of
utilization of resources and the use of technological O&M Management System, Efficiency
across three themes: Nepal in July 2023 and the findings on the DPRs has
advancements for improving energy efficiency. Till March Management etc.
been submitted to EXIM Bank.
(i) Solarization of building roof-top/ground 2024, your Company along with its JVs, including foreign
 Environmental Audits
mounted PV installation, d. International MOU and Subsidiaries, has implemented 24640 MW capacity
based on Super Critical technology. Your Company has  Renovation & Modernization - NTPC offers
(ii) Solar based Cold Storages, and Your Company has signed two MOUs:
commissioned two of the country’s most efficient power solutions for R&M of old plants for
(iii) Solar PV based Water Pumping Systems. • MOU with ESB-Ireland in November 2023 to plants based on the Ultra-Super Critical (USC) technology enhancement of performance and life cycle
promote clean energy technologies by way of at Khargone (2x660MW) and Telangana (2x800 MW). from its extensive experience in system
Projects in 5 countries (Seychelles, Cuba, Malawi,
promoting R&D and innovation. restoration, efficiency improvement and R&M
Uganda, and Ethiopia) have been successfully
of old thermal power projects.
186 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 187
 Technical Due Diligence - NTPC supports lenders c. Technology Adoption: Adopting solar, wind and green advocacy for compensating the additional cost and companies (Global rank-372) in Forbes Global 2000
in management of stressed assets through hydrogen production requires significant technological incentivising the flexible operation is also being taken companies (2024).
technical due diligence. expertise and investment. Organizations may face up at various levels.
The focus of your Company is to fulfil the ever-increasing
challenges in adopting and scaling up these technologies
• Implementation of New Environment norms: NTPC 3. Environmental Concerns power requirements of the country, critical for meeting the
efficiently, especially if there are delays or setbacks in
also provides Owner’s Engineer Consultancy service growth aspirations. While doing this, it is of cardinal
research and development or if the technologies prove As per new environment norms, all plants must achieve
from Concept to commissioning for Flue Gas importance to be a major contributor in the energy transition
to be economically unviable in the long run due to rapid 100% ash utilization within a ‘compliance period’ of 3 to
Desulphurization (FGD) systems, and SPM control fostering the achievement of net zero milestone.
technological advancements in the field. 5 Years based on their level of Ash utilization during FY22.
and reduction in water consumption.
Various initiatives have been undertaken for the In this regard, your Company has an ambitious plan to reach
d. Environmental and Social Concerns: The development
• Renewable Energy Transition: Recognizing the development of new products and processes such as use a total installed capacity of 130 GW+ by 2032. In Renewable
of renewable energy projects, particularly large-scale
imperative to transition towards renewable energy of Bottom Ash in place of Sand and because of novel space, the target is to achieve 60 GW by 2032. Capacity
installations like Solar projects and wind farms, may face
sources, we actively support clients in their journey technologies & products such as Nano Concrete addition is planned through Ultra Mega Renewable Energy
opposition from local communities, environmental
towards sustainable power generation. Through Aggregate (NACA), precast elements, paver blocks etc. Power Projects (UMREPPs), collaborating with other
groups, and indigenous people due to concerns about
Owner’s Engineer Services, we facilitate the using NACA has been successfully developed and companies, partnering with State Governments and through
land use, biodiversity conservation, and cultural heritage.
development and commissioning of renewable implemented. competitive bids. To focus on RE business, your Company has
energy projects, including wind and solar power e. Green Hydrogen growth: Cost of green hydrogen is a consolidated its RE portfolio under its wholly owned
4. Non-availability of Gas
plants, pump storage hydro projects etc. Our efforts major impediment for growth in India or elsewhere. Cost subsidiary NTPC Green Energy Limited (NGEL).
in this domain contribute to reducing reliance on of renewable energy amounts to nearly 60-70% cost of GOI has accorded higher priority for allocation of
To ensure the optimal utilization of the vast renewable
fossil fuels and promoting a greener energy mix. green hydrogen and chemicals resulting into at least domestic gas to CGD (City Gas Distribution) sector. Due
capacity planned, energy storage solutions will be of vital
twice the cost of traditional green chemicals. It is to the diversion of allocated gas to the CGD sector as
• IT and HR Services: NTPC offers IT services including importance. In this regard, it is planned to develop substantial
expected that in coming decades cost of green hydrogen per MOP&NG guidelines, allocated domestic gas (APM/
some of its flagship home-grown products such as storage capacity. GOI has indicated power CPSEs for
shall come down with sizable scale of domestic Non-APM) supplies to your Company became Nil w.e.f.
DREAMS (Drawing Review and Management development of Pump storage projects across the country.
Electrolyser production and RE component 16 June 2021. Further, due to high reserve prices and
System), CLIMS (Contract Labour Management Under this Pump Storage Projects totalling to 11.5 GW have
manufacturing based in India. Till such time green onerous terms & conditions, the Power sector is not able
Information System), Implementation of ERP, Plant been indicated for your Company, we are taking up with State
hydrogen production is likely to be dormant. to tie up new domestic gas from the KG basin. Gas
Information (PI) System etc. NTPC conducts Governments for implementing these. NTECL, your
stations are dependent upon costlier RLNG for declaring
Organizational restructuring studies, policy framing f. Policy and Regulatory Uncertainty: Changes in policies, Company’s JV with TANGEDCO has been allotted Upper
capacity/generation, however, the generation schedule
and system formation. regulations, and incentives can create uncertainty for Bhavani Pumped Storage Project (4X250 MW) in Nilgiri
on RLNG is not available on a sustained basis.
investors and project developers. Delays in project District of Tamilnadu by Government of Tamilnadu.
• Distribution: NTPC has been appointed as Project
approvals can add on to the business risk and hinder the
Implementing Agency (PIA) for implementation of OUTLOOK FOR THE COMPANY Considering the high level of variable Renewable electricity
growth of the renewable energy sector.
loss reduction works under GOI Revamped Reforms- infusion, it is important to provide Base load support to the
Strategic focus of the Company
Based and Results-linked, Distribution Sector Efforts are made to obtain all statutory clearances and grid, to ensure grid stability. For this purpose, a thermal
Scheme (RDSS scheme) in 9 districts of UT of J&K. ensure land availability before the commencement of As India is expected to grow at a fast pace in the ‘Amrit kaal’, capacity of around 10 GW through brown field projects is
the projects. Timely tie up for power evacuation and your Company’s priority is to support this pace of economic also under construction.
THREATS/CHALLENGES/CONCERNS expediting the installation of associated transmission development by providing accessible, affordable, and reliable
Further, for its maiden foray into nuclear power, your
system is helping in mitigating the grid capacity power to the consumers. The demand for power registered
1. RE Capacity Growth Company is collaborating with Nuclear Power Corporation
constraints. Further, GOI has planned the enhancement a growth of 7% in FY24 due to the post pandemic economic
of India (NPCIL). NTPC has signed a Supplementary Joint
The following factors will increase the input cost leading of the transmission capacity to meet 500 GW renewable recovery and an abnormally hot summer. Under these testing
Venture Agreement (SJVA) with NPCIL for development of
to challenges for the fast-paced growth of RE Capacity: capacity by 2030. circumstances your Company has not only catered to this
Nuclear Power Projects. Initially it is planned to develop one
surge in demand, but also did it more efficiently. This is
a. Supply Chain Disruptions: Renewable power projects 2. Flexible operation of Thermal Units project with capacity of 2.8 GW. This will also help the country
reflected in the generation touching 422 BUs for the first time
rely on a complex supply chain for equipment, materials, in meeting the net zero emission target by 2070.
To integrate variable RE into the grid, coal-based power and average PLF of your Company’s coal stations reaching
and components necessary for renewable energy
plants must regulate their generation to maintain grid 77.25%, way higher than the country average of 69.49%. In It is also planned to foray into the Hydrogen ecosystem for
projects. Disruptions in the supply chain, whether due
balance. Therefore, the influx of more RE power in the terms of market share, your Company supplied more than production of Green Chemicals and fuels (Methanol &
to geopolitical tensions, trade disputes, or natural
grid would require many coal-based plants to operate at 24% of the Country’s power demand while having around Ammonia) supported by research & development and
disasters or force majeure conditions could lead to delays
technical minimum capacity, frequent load fluctuations, 17% of installed capacity thus maintaining its leadership collaboration with OEM/OES, research institutes, etc.
in project execution and cost overruns.
and two-shift operations. This will result in lower position in power generation. This has been made possible
To expand its RE-C&I (Commercial and Industrial) portfolio,
b. Infrastructure Constraints: Developing renewable efficiency at partial load, leading to a higher cost of with a diversified portfolio and an integrated supply chain
your Company has also entered into agreements with various
energy infrastructure, such as offshore wind farms and generation. Other factors like the cost of balancing from coal mining to power trading.
companies for supply of RE-RTC (Round the Clock) power.
energy storage facilities, requires substantial investment services, and reduced life due to flexible operation of
The stature of your Company is well depicted by its worldwide
in land, transmission lines, and grid integration. the thermal plant would also adversely affect the cost of Further, your Company envisages enhancing its current
rankings such as 1st Independent Power Producer (IPP) in the
Challenges related to land acquisition, regulatory generation. Most of the NTPC plants have achieved the presence in consultancy services, power trading, and ancillary
PLATTS IPP and Energy Trader Ranking (2022), 14th in Fortune
approvals, and grid reliability can delay project timelines ramping rate required for flexible operation and policy services and has targeted a 25% market share in ancillary
India 500 companies (2023) and 10th largest among Indian
and increase costs heavily. services and storage by 2032 under its long-term plan.
188 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 189
Fuel security is of critical importance for the thermal portfolio; 2. Green Hydrogen projects: NTPC has signed a Supplementary Joint Venture 3. Bamboo-based Bio-Refinery at Bongaigaon
therefore, your Company’s focus is on increasing the captive Agreement (SJVA-1) with Nuclear Power Corporation of
Green Hydrogen Blending Project at Kawas: Operational Your Company is currently pursuing a techno-economic
coal production through NTPC Mining Limited (NML). Efforts India Ltd. (NPCIL) for development of Nuclear Power
since last 15 months, this pilot has succeeded in blending Feasibility Studies through consultant M/s EIL to setup a
are being made for acquisition of new coal & other mineral Projects. Initially, one project has been identified for
8% v/v green hydrogen in November 2023 after satisfying Bamboo based 2G Bio-Refinery project at Bongaigaon
blocks through participation in auctioning of coal blocks by transfer from NPCIL to the JV Company, ASHVINI (Anu
all regulatory approvals. With this NTPC’s engineering Thermal Power Station. Through this project, NTPC aims
Ministry of Coal (MOC)/other mineral blocks by Ministry of Shakti Vidyut Nigam Limited), i.e., Mahi Banswara
and project management capabilities are amply to extract valuable bio-chemicals from naturally available
Mines or by Individual State Governments. Rajasthan Atomic Power Project (MBRAPP 4X700 MW).
demonstrated. bamboo in the region and use the by-product i.e., Bio
Your Company has embraced digitalization as a fundamental Development of SMR (Small Modular Reactor): SMR is coal as a fuel for blending with coal to fire in Bongaigaon
Mobility Project at Leh and Greater Noida: Two green
component of its strategy. By extensively implementing digital reactor with power output from 10MWe to 300MWe power plant. Based on EIL’s global EOI findings, MOU with
mobility projects one at Leh and another at Greater
tools and technologies, we enhance operational efficiency with passive cooling and walkaway safe feature. This can technology licenser M/s Chempolis, was signed for
Noida are at advanced stage of execution. The project at
and optimize resource utilization. This approach enables us be utilized for generation of clean Hydrogen, Industrial exploring setting up an integrated bamboo based
Leh is aimed at finding the techno-economic feasibility
to achieve our commitment to high productivity while heating, desalination, repurposing of coal plant etc. NTPC biorefinery at NTPC Bongaigaon project. The draft DPR
of Hydrogen buses for short haul (less than 200 km),
supporting sustainable growth and resource conservation. is under discussion with BARC for development of is under discussion.
while in project at Greater Noida long haul operation
indigenous SMR technology.
Power and carbon credit trading scheme has the potential to (more than 600 km) is being tried out. 4. Commercial operation of Desalinated Distillate/Mineral
fundamentally affect all the sectors of the economy and can Fuel security: For reliable generation from nuclear power Water generated at NTPC Simhadri
Future Hydrogen Technologies: Green Hydrogen based
play a substantial role in India’s efforts to mitigate climate plants, uninterrupted nuclear fuel supply needs to be
microgrid project of 200 kW RE-RTC and locomotive(s) NETRA had developed the “FLASH DESALINATION
change. As the government is putting enabling policies and ensured. Given the magnitude of future power
are at the advanced stage of planning which are to be TECHNOLOGY (FDT)” for production of Quality water
regulations in place, your Company is gearing up to be a major generation projections, indigenous sources of fuel supply
put into regular use by FY26. Two Green Hydrogen based (desalinate/ distilled) from sea / brackish water utilizing
player in this domain. In power trading, NVVN, a wholly may not be sufficient. NTPC is in discussion with UCIL
microgrid projects of 25 kW each based on AEM and PEM the heat from flue gas of power plant. A facility for
owned subsidiary of your Company traded more than 35 BUs (Uranium Corporation of India Ltd.) on due diligence for
have been commissioned which shall be used for production of 120 ton per day of desalinated water using
in FY24. acquisition of overseas Uranium assets.
research studies. FDT technology was set up by NETRA at NTPC Simhadri.
Growth Outlook Capability development: In association with NPCIL Subsequently, for commercial utilisation of desalinated
3. Offshore Wind
design team, your Company is building inhouse capacity water a MOA was signed with IRCTC for setting up RAIL
Your Company is looking for opportunities to expand and
With the GOI’s notification of Offshore Wind Lease Rules in nuclear technology, for this we have tied up with BARC NEER packaged drinking water bottling facility at NTPC
diversify its business in new areas both domestically and
(2023), developers are allowed to lease areas between for one-year OCES (Orientation Course in Engineering Simhadri. RAIL NEER plant has been commissioned &
globally by working in close coordination with the Indian and
25 and 500 square km for offshore wind projects. This graduates and Science Post-Graduates) course for its declared commercially operative.
global energy community. Some of the key growth
opens a potential field for NTPC and other renewable executives.
opportunities identified by your Company are discussed 5. Collaboration with State Governments/CPSEs
energy developers in India. NTPC is pursuing
below. 2. Hydrogen Hub at Pudimadaka
collaborations with global partners to leverage expertise Uttar Pradesh
Renewable Energy and experience in developing offshore wind energy Your Company has conceptualised setting up of a Green
Your Company has signed following proposals for
projects. Your Company is actively participating in all Hydrogen Hub at Pudimadaka near Vishakhapatnam.
1. Solar and wind power investments in UP Power Sector in February 2023 during
relevant tenders for offshore wind projects. Spread over 1200 acres, the Project shall involve
UP Global Investors Summit:
As on 31 March 2024, your Company has a group establishment of manufacturing facilities for Hydrogen
4. Energy Storage
commissioned RE capacity of 3.5 GW. NTPC is already related equipments, production & export of Green • Expansion of MUNPL (a JV of NTPC & UPRVUNL) with
having the largest portfolio of floating solar projects of NTPC is actively pursuing different forms of energy Hydrogen. When fully developed it shall consume 5 GW Stage-II units, subject to feasibility, statutory
262 MW. The expertise and the experience gained is storage, e.g., Pumped Hydro, BESS (Battery Energy of RE power while exporting about 2 MMTPA of green clearance, and equity infusion by Govt. of UP.
being deployed for executing number of floating solar Storage System) and Thermal energy storage. In addition ammonia and green methanol. It is well connected to
• Jointly setting up 2X800 MW supercritical Thermal
projects in the country. UMREPP at Gujarat (4.8 GW), to previously mentioned technologies, usage of major transportation hubs covering road, rail and sea.
Power plants at Obra and Anpara with UPRVUNL
DVC (0.7 GW), and Madhya Pradesh (0.6 GW) are being Hydrogen as storage solution is being explored. As a first, Many international potential off-takers have shown
through the JV MUNPL.
developed by NTPC. These parks shall attain full capacity NTPC REL is executing a 500-kW solar based off-grid interest in setting up production units.
within next three years. A number of MOUs have been power generation system coupled with 250kW/1200kWh Rajasthan
A detailed proposal was submitted to Andhra Pradesh
signed with various state governments to undertake BESS system, to provide construction power for under
Your Company and Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Utpadan
Government for development of this Hydrogen Hub at
more UMREPPs, totalling to over 50 GW capacity. Under execution solar project in Khavda region, avoiding DG
Nigam Ltd signed an MOU in March 2024.
Pudimadaka. The State Investment Promotion Board
NSM, 5.25 GW of RE projects have been commissioned sets. NTPC REL has already issued tenders for 4 GW/24
(SIPB) and State Cabinet has cleared NTPC’s proposal and • The purpose of MOU is to explore capacity
and 3.3 GW of RE projects are under implementation as GWh capacity energy storage solutions.
Government Order received in February 2023. NTPC’s expansion opportunities and collaborate for
of March 2024. MNRE has accorded approval to NTPC to
Diversification and New Business Area Initiatives green arm NGEL has been identified for setting up the performance improvement in existing units (4x250
act as a renewable energy implementing agency (REIA)
and issue tenders for setting up renewable power Your Company is exploring new business opportunities in proposed Green Hydrogen Hub at Pudimadaka. + 2x660 MW) at Chhabra.
Accordingly, NGEL has executed the Pudimadaka land
projects (wind and solar) under developer mode. In FY24 different areas as summarised below: • The MOU also aims to explore the possibilities of
lease deed in February 2024 with Andhra Pradesh
RE capacity of 15 GW, comprising vanilla solar and wind, 1. Nuclear Energy annuity-based R&M of other units of RVUNL.
Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (APIIC).
hybrid and FDRE (Firm and Dispatchable Renewable
Joint venture for development of nuclear power
Energy) have been tendered out.
190 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 191
NALCO is secured by the Tri-Partite Agreements (TPAs) signed retrieval facility and video conference facility are extensively • Structured & regular energy audits to identify potential
amongst the State Government(s), Government of India (GOI) utilized for project tracking, issue resolutions and areas of improvement in APC reduction and
Your Company and NALCO signed an MOU in February
and Reserve Bank of India (RBI). As per the TPA, any default management interventions. PMC has helped in providing Implementation of action plans.
2024. The purpose of MOU is to explore various options
in payment by the State owned Discoms can be recovered effective coordination between the agencies and has
such as Thermal, Solar, Wind, Energy storage or any • To reduce cost of generation steps have been taken to
directly from the State’s account in RBI. The TPAs signed provided enhanced/ efficient monitoring of the projects
combination of same to supply round the clock reduce Energy Charge Rate (ECR) by swapping of coal
during 2000-01 were valid up to 31 October 2016. leading to a better and faster project implementation.
uninterrupted power to cater the requirement of NALCO supplies and optimizing operations.
Subsequently these TPAs have been extended for a further
for expansion of its smelter plant capacity at Angul, In addition to above, in order to make monitoring of projects
period of 10 to 15 years. As of now, 29 out of total 31 States/ • Use of a Comprehensive Performance Evaluation Matrix
Odisha. more effective, your Company is now adopting Integrated
UTs have signed the TPAs extension documents. The signing (PEM) for relative evaluation of the performance of
Software monitoring tool for integrating progress of
of TPAs extension by remaining States is being taken up. various power plants to create an environment of in-
FUEL SECURITY Engineering, Supplies and Erection at one place, and
house challenge and competition. The parameters are
During FY24, your Company has realized 100% of its dues. capturing progress online. Features like mobile app based
To focus on the mining business, NTPC Mining Ltd. (NML), a reviewed annually to include new parameters
The target set by the Government of India (GOI), for updation of progress and role-based access make the tool
wholly owned subsidiary, was formed. While Ministry of Coal commensurate with market dynamics and developments
realization of dues for energy supply in FY24 has also been more user-friendly which will result into regular updation of
(MOC) approved transfer of Pakri-Barwadih mine in in power sector.
achieved. Most of the beneficiaries have made timely progress. It will help in taking timely remedial actions. This
December 2020, permission of transfer of other mines were
payments and availed the applicable rebates. tool has been included in the bid documents of EPC packages • Adopting advanced technologies in new units e.g.,
accorded in March 2023. Following which Business Transfer
of upcoming projects of NTPC and included in recently commissioning of super critical units, which improves
Agreement was executed and Deed of Adherence (DOA) Power Trading in Power Exchange - Your Company has been
awarded projects. system efficiency & reduces carbon footprint and
among NTPC, NML & MOC was signed in September 2023. participating, both in the Integrated Day Ahead Market (I-
retrofits of DeNOx & DeSOx technologies in older units.
Amended Allotment Agreement for all coal mines was DAM) and Real time Market (RTM) for selling any URS power In a changing global scenario, your Company has added
received in January 2024. Asset transfer and clearances are in the Power Exchange through its trading arm NVVN. Besides various other project management tools which are Online • Renovation & modernization for reduction of greenhouse
ongoing. selling the URS power, it has also been selling any regulated CAPEX monitoring system/ Digital Hindrance register/ Digital gas emissions, effective modernized control systems for
power, merchant power, relinquished gas power, infirm power Chronology register/Issue Monitoring System etc. environment friendly economic generation and
With five operational mines namely, Pakri-Barwadih, Dulanga,
in the Power Exchanges. In FY24, record 3278 MUs of power particulate emission control.
Talaipalli, Chatti-Bariatu & Kerandari, coal production in FY24 Operational Efficiency
has been sold in the various segment of power exchanges by
• Water conservation measures like increasing the Cycle
stands at 34.39 MMT with a growth of 48% over previous
NTPC. Corresponding gains for this sale have been shared The operating performance of your Company has been
of Concentration (CoC) of circulating water and ash water
year. Cumulative production reached 103.99 MMT in March
with the beneficiaries as per the extant regulatory provisions. consistently above the national average. Over the years, your
recirculation, implementation of zero effluent discharge,
2024. Kerandari mine commenced production in January
Company has consistently operated at much higher operating
2024. Additionally, development of the Badam mine is Leveraging on Strengths for Delivering Better Future high concentration ash-slurry discharge, dry evacuation
efficiency as compared to All India operating performance.
underway, with a Mine Developer cum Operator (MDO) Performance of ash, and Air-Cooled Condensers (ACC) etc.
In order to achieve cost-competitive, environment friendly,
appointed in December 2023. Similarly, development Your Company derives its competitive edge from its strengths • Strict compliance of Grid Code, ancillary services for
efficient & reliable power generation, your Company has
activities and process of obtaining statutory clearances are and is confident of meeting future challenges. ensuring grid stability.
adopted following strategies:
in progress for Banhardih mine, allocated to Patratu Vidyut
Project Management Human Resources
Utapadan Nigam Ltd. (PVUNL), a Subsidiary of Your Company • To improve reliability of the units and to reduce the
in joint venture with Government of Jharkhand. In addition, Your Company has adopted an integrated system for the forced outages, close monitoring of start-ups & Your Company has a highly talented team of committed
Amelia Mine owned by NTPC’s subsidiary THDCIL produced planning, scheduling, monitoring and control of approved shutdowns and root cause analysis of all the outages is professionals and has been able to induct, develop and retain
1.25 MMT of Coal taking the total captive production of the projects under implementation. To co-ordinate and carried out and an action plan is generated to mitigate the best talent. Your Company has a very low executive
group to 35.64 MMT for FY24. synchronise all the support functions of project management, the outages. attrition rate. Your Company is deeply passionate about
NML won its 1st commercial coal block of North-Dhadu (East), Company relies on a three-tiered project management system • Continuous real time monitoring of critical parameter ensuring the holistic development of all its employees as
known as the Integrated Project Management Control System distinct individuals and good citizens. Competence building,
through competitive bidding in August 2023. Subsequently, deviations (both reliability & efficiency related) and
(IPMCS), which integrates its engineering management, Commitment building, Culture building, and Systems building
Coal block development & production agreement (CBDPA) implementation of action plan to mitigate the deviations.
contract management and construction management control are the four pillars on which HR Systems of your Company
signed with MOC in September 2023. The vesting order has
centres. The IPMCS addresses all stages of project • Optimizing planned outage period through are based. Your Company has been conferred with various
been received from MOC and site office has been opened in
implementation, from concept to commissioning. implementation of Overhaul Preparedness Index (OPI), HR Awards over the years by reputed institutions and
December 2023. Geological report submitted to the Ministry
ensuring all quality checks and time bound monitoring consistently features among the “Great Places to Work for”.
in April 2024. Efforts are being made for acquisition of new Your Company has established state-of-the-art IT enabled
of each activity. The commitment of the employees is also reflected in
coal & other blocks through participation in auctioning of Project Monitoring Centre (PMC) for facilitating fast track
consistent improvement of financial parameters such as sales
coal blocks by Ministry of Coal (MOC)/other mineral blocks project implementation. PMC has advanced features like • Improvement in Heat Rate & Auxiliary Power
per employee, value added per employee etc.
by Ministry of Mines or by Individual State Governments. Project Review and Internal Monitoring System (PRIMS), etc. Consumption achieved by parametric optimization,
PMC facilitates monitoring of key project milestones and also specially at part loads by operation of units in sliding Sound Corporate Governance
REALISATION acts as decision support system for the management. pressure mode & optimizing excess air.
Your Company’s corporate governance practices have been
Your Company has in place a robust payment security PMC is an integrated enterprise-wide collaborative system • To minimize efficiency losses in stations, Plant recognised and awarded at several forums. Your Company
mechanism in the form of Letters of Credit (LC) backed by to facilitate consolidation of project related issues and their Information (PI) system-based applications for real time believes in following the highest standards of transparency,
the Tri-Partite Agreement (TPA). Apart from the LCs, payment resolution. Features like real time video capture, storage and efficiency & loss calculations. integrity and accountability. It enjoys the confidence of all
192 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 193
stakeholders alike. Your Company not only believes in The Internal Control Framework system presents a written 2. Non-current financial assets (Note-7 to Note-11) parties, employees & others, share application money, claims
adopting best practices but also includes public interest in assessment of effectiveness of Company’s internal control recoverable, finance lease receivables and mine closure
(a) Equity investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures
its corporate priorities and has developed extensive social over financial reporting by the process owners to facilitate deposit.
(Note-7)
outreach programmes. NTPC’s consistent commitment to certification by CEO and CFO and enhances reliability of
` Crore
high standards of corporate governance is recognized by the assertion. The break-up of equity investments in subsidiaries and joint
Gold Award for its Annual Report at the “Corporate ventures is as follows: Particulars As at March 31 % Change
Depicting strong Internal Control, your Company’s Internal
Governance Disclosures Competition 2022,” organized by the Audit department was honoured with the “Internal Auditor ` Crore 2024 2023
South Asian Federation of Accountants (SAFA).
of the Year” award at the 5th Audit and Risk Summit & Awards Particulars As at March 31 Other investments
Robust Financials and Systems (UBS Forums). (Note-8) 701.98 631.08 11.23%
2024 2023
Your Company has strong financial systems in place. It believes Loans (Note-9) 800.66 1,233.47 (35.09)%
FINANCIAL DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS Subsidiaries 22,177.16 19,661.63
in prudent management of its financial resources and strives Trade receivables
to reduce the cost of capital. Your Company enjoys highest A detailed discussion and analysis on financial statements is Joint ventures 10,228.79 9,427.04 (Note-10) 1,168.10 2,399.78 (51.32)%
credit-rating assigned by CRISIL, ICRA, CARE and India Ratings. furnished below. Reference to Note(s) in the following Total 32,405.95 29,088.67
Other financial
The foreign ratings by Fitch, S&P & Moody’s are at par with paragraphs refers to the Notes to the standalone financial
During the year, equity investments in subsidiaries and joint assets (Note-11) 627.98 922.93 (31.96)%
sovereign ratings. It has robust financials leading to strong statements for the financial year 2023-24 placed elsewhere
cash flows which are being progressively deployed in in this Annual Report. ventures increased by 11%. The increase/ (decrease) is as Total 3,298.72 5,187.26 (36.41)%
under:
generating assets. Your Company has a strong balance-sheet
A. Financial position Other investments mainly comprise of investment in equity
coupled with low gearing and healthy coverage ratios. As a ` Crore
instruments of PTC India Ltd. and debt instruments of Jhabua
result, your Company has been able to raise resources for its The items of the Balance Sheet are as discussed under:
Name of Company Amount Power Limited.
capital expansion projects at very competitive interest rates
1. Property, plant & equipment (PPE), Capital work-in-
in domestic as well international markets. NTPC Green Energy Limited 1,000.00 Outstanding dues of the beneficiaries have been rescheduled
progress, Investment property, Intangible assets and
up to a maximum period of 48 months in the manner
Internal Control Intangible assets under development (Note-2 to Note- Patratu Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Ltd. 526.93
prescribed in the Electricity (Late Payment Surcharge and
6)
To ensure regulatory and statutory compliances as well to Energy Efficiency Services Ltd. 383.00 Related Matters) Rules, 2022 and accordingly presented at
provide highest level of corporate governance, your Company The PPE, Capital work-in-progress, Investment property, their fair value under Non-current Trade Receivables.
Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Ltd. 347.04
has robust internal systems and processes in place for smooth Intangible assets and Intangible assets under development
Other financial assets include share application money
and efficient conduct of business and complies with relevant of the Company are detailed as under: Bangladesh-India Friendship Power 162.00
pending allotment in subsidiaries and joint ventures, claims
laws and regulations. A comprehensive delegation of powers ` Crore Co. Pvt. Ltd. recoverable, finance lease receivables and mine closure
exists for smooth decision making which is periodically NTPC Mining Ltd. 154.05
Particulars As at March 31 % Change deposit.
reviewed to align it with changing business environment and
Meja Urja Nigam Private Ltd. 41.92 ` Crore
for speedier decision making. Elaborate guidelines for 2024 2023
preparation of accounts are followed consistently for uniform NTPC Tamil Nadu Energy Company Ltd. 30.00 Other financial As at March 31 % Change
Gross block of 2,98,418.18 2,69,166.05 11%
compliance. To ensure that all checks and balances are in assets (Note-11)
PPE (Note-2) National High Power Test Laboratory 18.40
place and all internal control systems are in order, regular 2024 2023
Net block of 2,11,323.43 1,96,441.71 8% Private Ltd.
and exhaustive internal audits are conducted by experienced
PPE (Note-2) Share application - 137.93 (100)%
firms of Chartered Accountants in close co-ordination with Trincomalee Power Company Ltd. 0.44
money pending
the Company’s own Internal Audit Department. Besides, your Capital work-in- 47,153.81 61,743.88 (24)%
Total investments during the year 2,663.78 allotment
Company has two committees of the Board viz. Audit progress (Note-3)
Committee and Committee on Management Controls to keep Investment 859.90 465.18 85% Add: Provision for impairment made in earlier years written Claims recoverable 485.07 517.28 (6)%
a close watch on compliance with Internal Control Systems. property back during the year Finance lease - 201.56 (100)%
receivables
A well-defined internal control framework has been (Note-4) Ratnagiri Gas & Power Private Ltd. 834.55
Mine closure 142.91 66.16 116%
developed identifying key controls. The supervision of Net block of 427.69 454.17 (6)% Less: Provision for impairment made during the year
deposit
operational efficiency of designed key controls is done by Intangible assets
Transformers and Electricals Kerala Ltd. 25.87
Internal Audit. The framework provides an elaborate system (Note-5) Total 627.98 922.93 (32)%
of checks and balances based on self-assessment as well as National High Power Test Laboratory 6.08
Intangible 3.19 44.92 (93)% Claims recoverable includes amounts outstanding as
audit of controls conducted by Internal Audit at the process Private Ltd.
assets under recoverable from GOI of `483.37 crore (31 March 2023:
level. Gap tracking report for operating efficiency of controls
development Energy Efficiency Services Ltd. 149.10 `517.28 crore), the cost incurred in respect of Loharinag-pala
is reviewed by the management regularly and action is taken
to further strengthen the Internal Control System by further (Note-6) Net increase in investments 3,317.28 hydro power project, the construction of which has been
discontinued on the advice of the Ministry of Power (MOP),
standardizing systems & procedures and implementing During the year, total gross block of PPE has increased by
(b) Other Non-current financial assets (Note-8 to Note-11) GOI and it is expected that the same will be compensated in
process changes, wherever required, keeping in view the 11% while capital work-in-progress has decreased by 24%
full by the GOI.
dynamic environment in which the Company is operating. mainly due to addition of new commercial capacity. Other Non-current financial assets mainly comprise of
investment in equity and debt instruments, loans to related The Company had ascertained that the Power Purchase
194 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 195
Agreement (PPA) entered into for Stage-I of Tanda thermal (a) Inventories (Note-13) transferred / provided to customers when that right is Regulatory deferral account balances are adjusted from the
power station with the beneficiary falls under the definition conditioned on matters, other than passage of time, like year in which the same become recoverable from or payable
Inventories mainly comprise of coal and stores & spares,
of finance lease. The PPA is expiring in the next financial year receipt of income tax assessment orders, truing up orders to the beneficiaries. The regulatory assets recognized in the
which are maintained for operating stations. Value of coal
and accordingly the balance lease recoverable has been from CERC etc. and are net of credits to be passed to books are as follows:
inventory has increased from `5,064.63 crore as at 31 March
included under ‘Current assets - Other financial assets’ (Note- customers.
2023 to `7,560.67 crore as at 31 March 2024. Further, stores ` Crore
19).
and spares inventory has increased from `6,231.13 crore as (f) Other current assets (Note-20)
Particulars Regulatory
3. Other non-current assets (Note-12) at previous year end to `7,148.84 crore, mainly on account
Other current assets comprise of security deposits, advances deferral
of addition of new commercial capacity.
The changes in other non-current assets during the year to related parties, employees, contractors and suppliers, account debit/
are as follows: (b) Investments (Note-14) claims recoverable etc. credit balance
` Crore
Current investments comprise of current maturities of debt ` Crore A. Opening balance as on 1 April 2023 11,961.97
Other non- As at March 31 % Change instruments held in Jhabua Power Limited. B. Additions during the year 1,539.05
Particulars As at March 31 % Change
current assets
(c) Trade receivables (Note-15) C. Amount realized/recognised during (164.67)
2024 2023
2024 2023 the year
As on 31 March 2024, current trade receivables amounted Security deposits 1,863.76 2,322.88 -20%
Capital advances 6,089.11 6,026.69 1% to `27,347.52 crore (including doubtful debts which have (unsecured) D. Regulatory deferral account balances 1,374.38
Security deposits 303.05 306.87 (1)% been provided for) and the corresponding trade receivables recognized in the statement of profit
Advances 4,804.97 4,426.26 9%
as on 31 March 2023 were `26,028.64 crore. Trade receivables and loss (B+C)
Advances to 1,666.51 1,810.82 (8)%
contractors and include unbilled revenue for the month of March amounting Claims recoverable 4,030.67 3,852.26 5% E. Adjustments during the year (206.86)
to `13,326.46 crore (31 March 2023: `11,176.95 crore) billed, Others 208.10 124.75 67%
suppliers (other F. Closing balance as on 31 March 2024 13,129.49
net of advance, to the beneficiaries after 31 March. Based
than capital Total 10,907.50 10,726.15 2% (A+D+E)
on arrangements between Company, banks and beneficiaries,
advances)
the bills of the beneficiaries have been discounted. Trade Other current assets have increased mainly due to increase Closing balance as at 31 March 2024 comprises of
Advance tax and 2,194.06 2,476.02 (11)%
receivables include bills discounted amounting to `1,824.71 in Advances to contractors and suppliers by `287.10 crore. Regulatory deferral account debit balances of `13,409.81
tax deducted at
crore (31 March 2023: `1,287.19 crore) pursuant to opinion Advances to contractors and suppliers mainly include crore (Note-22) and Regulatory deferral account credit
source (net of
of EAC of ICAI. Trade receivables for previous period has also payment made to coal companies amounting to `3,420.89 balances of `280.32 crore (Note-39).
provision for tax)
been restated. Non-current trade receivables amounted to crore (31 March 2023: `3,143.51 crore) for supply of coal to
Refer Note-70 of financial statements for detailed
Deferred foreign 1,486.57 1,565.41 (5)% `1,168.10 crore as on 31 March 2024 (31 March 2023: various stations of the Company.
disclosures.
currency `2,399.78 crore).
Claims recoverable includes claims against Railways
fluctuation asset 7. Total equity (Note-23 & Note-24)
Excluding the unbilled revenue and bills discounted, trade amounting to `1,962.65 crore (31 March 2023: `2,023.76
Others 199.40 167.83 19% receivables are equivalent to 31 days of sales as on 31 March crore) mainly towards diversion of coal rakes and claims The total equity of the Company at the end of financial
Total 11,938.70 12,353.64 (3)% 2024 in comparison to 36 days of sales as on 31 March 2023. amounting to `1,725.37 crore (31 March 2023: `1,615.66 year 2023-24 increased to `1,49,885.02 crore from
(d) Cash and cash equivalents (Note-16) & Bank balances crore) made against coal companies towards various issues
`1,38,889.88 crore in the previous year, an increase of
4. Current assets (Note-13 to Note-20) other than cash and cash equivalents (Note-17) such as credit notes to be received as per referee results for 8%. Major reasons for the same are tabulated below:
The changes in the current assets during the year are as grade slippages, supply of stones, claims under settlement ` Crore
Cash and cash equivalents & Bank balances other than cash
through AMRCD, surface transportation charges, etc.
follows:
and cash equivalents have increased from `3,741.73 crore as Particulars Total Equity
` Crore at 31 March 2023 to `4,600.50 crore as at 31 March 2024. 5. Assets held for sale (Note-21) Opening balance 1,38,889.88
Particulars As at March 31 % The main reason for change is increase in deposits Land, Building, Plant and equipment and Other assets which
Profit for the year 18,079.39
Current assets 2024 2023 Change representing unutilized amount of External Commercial have been identified for disposal has been classified as Assets
Inventories (Note-13) 17,369.83 13,679.75 27% Borrowings from `145.64 crore as at 31 March 2023 to held for sale. These assets are expected to be disposed within Other comprehensive income 15.26
Investments (Note-14) 50.00 50.00 - `832.76 crore as at 31 March 2024. the next twelve months. Assets held for sale has decreased Increase in Fly ash utilization reserve fund 172.99
Trade receivables (Note-15) 27,347.52 26,028.64 5% (e) Other financial assets (Note-19) from `120.52 crore as at 31 March 2023 to `117.19 crore as Dividend paid during the year (7,272.50)
at 31 March 2024.
Cash and cash equivalents 197.16 3.13 6,199% Other current financial assets have increased by `391.13 Closing balance 1,49,885.02
(Note-16) crore. This is mainly due to net effect of increase in Contract 6. Regulatory deferral account debit/credit balances
The President of India, acting through the Ministry of Power,
Bank balances other than cash 4,403.34 3,738.60 18% assets by `3,586.08 crore and decrease in advances (Note-22 & Note-39)
holds 495,53,46,251 shares constituting 51.10% of total
and cash equivalents (Note-17) (Unsecured) to related parties by `3,174.38 crore, which Expense/income recognized in the Statement of Profit & Loss
equity shares and balance 474,13,19,883 i.e., 48.90% equity
Loans (Note-18) 415.85 312.45 33% mainly represented recoverable from NGEL consequent to to the extent recoverable from or payable to the beneficiaries
shares are publicly held.
Other financial assets (Note-19) 11,664.94 11,273.81 3% transfer of RE assets in the previous year, settled during the in subsequent periods as per CERC Tariff Regulations are
Other current assets (Note-20) 10,907.50 10,726.15 2% year. recognized as ‘Regulatory deferral account balances’. The increase in total equity resulted in book value per share
rising to `154.57 from `143.23 as at the end of previous year.
Total current 72,356.14 65,812.53 10% Contract Assets represent Company’s right to consideration
assets in exchange for goods and services that the Company has
196 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 197
8. Non-current and current liabilities (Note-25 to Note- and an amount of `8,316.37 crore was repaid during the year. b. Non-current financial liabilities - Lease liabilities (Note- Borrowings (Note-31) comprise of short-term borrowings
37) The undrawn balance available under various sanctioned 26) & Other financial liabilities (Note-27) and current maturities of long-term borrowings. In order to
loans from domestic banks and financial institutions was finance the mismatches in the short-term fund requirement,
a. Non-current financial liabilities-Borrowings (Note-25): Lease liabilities have increased from `815.44 crore as at 31
`3,008.58 crore as at 31 March 2024. short-term borrowings in the form of Bills discounting,
March 2023 to `824.52 crore as at 31 March 2024. The lease
Details of non-current borrowings including current commercial papers, short-term working capital loan from
Domestic bonds: During the financial year 2023-24, Company liabilities are repayable in instalments as per the terms of
maturities are as under: Banks and cash credit were resorted to by the Company.
raised `4,500 crore through private placement of domestic the respective lease agreements, generally over a period of
` Crore bonds. Bonds amounting to `10,605.50 crore were redeemed more than 1 year and up to 99 years. Short-term borrowings outstanding as on 31 March 2024
were `16,704.09 crore as against `12,796.92 crore as on 31
during the year.
Particulars As at March 31
Other financial liabilities primarily consist of liabilities for March 2023.
2024 2023 Foreign borrowings: During the financial year 2023-24, the capital expenditure and Contractual obligations representing
Current financial liabilities - Lease liabilities (Note-32)
Company has drawn `4,129.16 crore and repaid `1,126.97 security deposit and retention money deducted from vendors
Non-current financial 1,46,159.07 1,56,315.69 comprise of current maturities of lease liabilities. The same
crore of foreign currency borrowings. The undrawn balance at present value. Other financial liabilities have decreased
liabilities-Borrowings has decreased from `170.79 crore as at 31 March 2023 to
available under foreign currency borrowings was `5,456.75 from `505.81 crore as at 31 March 2023 to `465.60 crore as
(Note-25) `162.87 crore as at 31 March 2024.
crore as at 31 March 2024. at 31 March 2024.
Current maturities of non- 22,355.46 17,172.23 Trade payables (Note-33) mainly comprise amount payable
current borrowings included The Company continues to enjoy highest credit ratings for its c. Non-current liabilities - Provisions (Note-28): towards supply of goods & services etc. Trade payables have
NCDs and borrowings from banks, while Company’s
in current financial liabilities Non-current provisions consist of amounts provided towards decreased by `123.44 crore. Refer Note-54 of financial
International Ratings are at par with sovereign ratings as
-Borrowings (Note-31) employees’ benefits as per actuarial valuation, which are statements for restatement of trade payables.
detailed hereunder:
Total borrowings 1,68,514.53 1,73,487.92 expected to be settled beyond a period of 12 months from
Other current financial liabilities (Note-34) mainly comprise
Credit Rating Rating Remarks the Balance Sheet date. Non-current provisions also consist
of interest accrued but not due on borrowings and payables
Total non-current borrowings have decreased by 3% over the Agency of Mine closure obligations and Stripping activity
towards capital expenditure. The details of other current
previous financial year. Debt amounting to `16,334.16 crore adjustments. Non-current provisions as at 31 March 2024
Domestic financial liabilities are as under:
was raised during the financial year 2023-24. The amount were `1,898.03 crore as compared to `1,727.78 crore as at
raised through term loans, non-convertible debentures CRISIL CRISIL AAA/Stable Highest ratings 31 March 2023. ` Crore
(NCDs) and foreign currency borrowings is used for capital ICRA [ICRA] AAA (Stable)
d. Non-current liabilities - Deferred tax liabilities (net) Particulars As at March 31
expenditure, refinancing, recoupment of capital expenditure
and other general corporate purposes. CARE CARE AAA; Stable (Note-29) 2024 2023
Details in respect of proceeds and repayment of borrowings INDIA Ratings IND AAA/Stable Deferred tax liabilities (net) have increased from `10,614.07 Interest accrued but not 2,449.72 2,523.78
for the financial year 2023-24 are as under: International crore as at 31 March 2023 to `13,066.53 crore as at 31 March due on borrowings
2024. The increase in deferred tax liabilities (net) during the
S&P BBB-/Stable Equivalent to Payables for capital 13,972.92 15,375.83
` Crore year is mainly due to capitalization of new units during the
sovereign expenditure
Source year.
ratings Other payables - 2,454.81 2,409.24
(Principal Debt raised Repayment Net e. Other non-current liabilities (Note-30)
Fitch BBB-/Stable Contractual obligations
Amount)
Moody’s Baa3/Stable Other non-current liabilities have increased from `70.64 crore Others 3,093.09 3,325.19
Rupee term loans 7,705.00 8,316.37 (611.37)
as at 31 March 2023 to `83.27 crore as at 31 March 2024.
Total 21,970.54 23,634.04
The maturity profile of the principal amount of borrowings
Domestic NCDs 4,500.00 10,605.50 (6,105.50)
f. Current liabilities (Note-31 to Note-37)
(excluding unamortized transaction costs and interest
Other current financial liabilities have decreased mainly due
Foreign borrowings 4,129.16 1,126.97 3,002.19
accrued) of the Company is as under: The break-up of current liabilities is as under:
to decrease in payables for capital expenditure by `1,402.91
Total 16,334.16 20,048.84 (3,714.68) ` Crore
` Crore crore.
FERV on foreign (1,279.33) Particulars As at March 31 %
Particulars Domestic Foreign Total Other current liabilities (Note-35) mainly consist of advances
borrowings Borrowings Borrowings Current assets 2024 2023 Change from customers & others and statutory dues. Other current
Transaction costs 20.62 Borrowings (Note-31) 39,059.55 29,969.15 30% liabilities have increased by `47.36 crore.
Up to 1 year 13,250.26 9,105.20 22,355.46
Lease liabilities (Note-32) 162.87 170.79 (5)%
Total (4,973.39) Current liabilities - Provisions (Note-36) mainly comprises
Beyond 1 and 27,315.59 13,181.64 40,497.23
Trade payables (Note-33) 9,474.66 9,598.10 (1)% of provisions for employee benefits, obligations incidental
Rupee Term loans: Banks and domestic financial institutions within 3 years
Other financial liabilities 21,970.54 23,634.04 (7)% to land acquisition, tariff adjustments, arbitration awards and
continued to support the capex program of the Company by Beyond 3 and 20,482.61 14,260.62 34,743.23 (Note-34) others. During the year current liabilities-provisions have
extending term loans for financing the on-going capacity within 5 years Other current liabilities 1,260.33 1,212.97 4% decreased by `1,094.04 crore. The main reason for the same
expansion plans. During the financial year 2023-24,
Beyond 5 and 48,185.79 9,428.66 57,614.45 (Note-35) is decrease in provision for arbitration awards by `625.32
agreements for term loans of `5,000 crore were entered into
within 10 years Provisions (Note-36) 6,376.21 7,470.25 (15)% crore and provision for obligations incidental to land
with various banks. An amount of `7,705 crore was drawn
Current tax liabilities (net) - 62.97 (100)% acquisition by `567.73 crore. However, same is offset to some
from domestic banks & financial institutions during the year Beyond 10 years 13,293.39 334.56 13,627.95
(Note-37) extent by increase in the provision for employee benefits by
Total 1,22,527.64 46,310.68 1,68,838.32
Total 78,304.16 72,118.27 9%
`122.12 crore.
198 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 199
Current tax liabilities (net) (Note-37) denotes the excess of ` Crore Amendment Regulations, 2020 and Second Amendment accounted for to be shared with the beneficiaries on
current tax for the year over advance tax paid amounting to Regulations, 2021, respectively. annual basis in the ratio of 50:50.
Sl. Particulars 2023-24 2022-23 % Change
`Nil (31 March 2023: `62.97 crore).
No. Sales have been provisionally recognized based on principles • Sharing of Non-Tariff Income: As per Regulation 62, non-
9. Deferred revenue (Note-38) enunciated in Tariff Regulations, 2019. CERC has issued tariff income from rent of land or building, sale of scrap
6 Energy 77.90 92.04 (15.36)%
provisional tariff orders in respect of thirty-nine stations for and advertisements has been shared with beneficiaries
Deferred revenue consists of income from foreign currency internally
the tariff period 2019-24. As per Regulation 10(4) of Tariff on annual basis, in the ratio of 50:50.
fluctuation detailed as under: consumed
Regulations 2019, pending issue of provisional/final tariff
` Crore 7 Interest income orders in respect of balance stations with effect from 1 April • Compensation for degradation: Compensation for
on assets under degradation of heat rate, APC and secondary fuel
2019, capacity charges are billed to beneficiaries in
Deferred revenue on account of As at March 31 finance lease 23.81 32.53 (26.81)% consumption due to part load operations and multiple
accordance with the tariff approved and applicable as on 31
2024 2023 start/stop of units are being accounted as per CERC order
8 Recognized from March 2019. In the case of new projects, which got
relating to operating procedures and the compensation
Income from foreign 2,328.01 2,616.87 government commercialized from 1 April 2019 onwards and projects
mechanism in terms of Grid Code.
currency fluctuation grants 4.00 94.88 (95.78)% where tariff approved and applicable as on 31 March 2019 is
Foreign exchange rate variation (FERV) on foreign currency 9 Provision written pending with CERC, billing is done based on capacity charges • Incentive: As per Regulation 49(B)(a), incentive to be
loans and interest thereon is recoverable from/payable to back-others 16.48 242.98 (93.22)% as filed with CERC in tariff petition. Energy charges are billed accounted for ex-bus schedule energy corresponding to
as per the operational norms specified in Regulations 2019. scheduled generation in excess of ex-bus energy
the customers in line with the Tariff Regulations. Keeping in 10 Income from 13.75 8.44 62.91%
corresponding to 85% PLF.
view the opinion of the EAC of ICAI, the Company is Trading of Capacity charges
recognizing deferred foreign currency fluctuation asset by ESCerts Elements of Total income are discussed below:
As per Tariff Regulations 2019, the capacity charges shall be
corresponding credit to deferred income from foreign
1,648.52 2,080.20 (20.75)% recovered under two segments of the year, i.e., High Demand Energy sales (including electricity duty)
currency fluctuation in respect of the FERV on foreign
Revenue from 1,61,985.03 1,63,769.77 (1.09)% Season (period of three months) and Low Demand Season Your Company sells electricity to bulk customers, mainly
currency loans adjusted in the cost of property, plant and
operations (period of remaining nine months), and within each season electricity utilities owned by State Governments as well as
equipment, which is recoverable from the customers in future
in two parts viz., Capacity Charge for Peak Hours of the month
years as provided in accounting policy. This amount will be 11 Other income 3,722.24 3,954.64 (5.88)% private DISCOMs operating in States. Sale of electricity is
and Capacity Charge for Off-Peak Hours of the month.
generally made pursuant to long-term Power Purchase
recognized as revenue corresponding to the depreciation
Total income 1,65,707.27 1,67,724.41 (1.20)%
charge in future years. The amount does not constitute a Energy charges Agreements (PPAs) entered into with the beneficiaries.
liability to be discharged in future periods and hence, it has The income of the Company comprises of income from energy The energy charges cover the primary and secondary fuel Income from energy sales (including electricity duty) for the
been disclosed separately from equity and liabilities. sales, sale of energy through trading, consultancy and other cost and limestone consumption cost (where applicable). financial year 2023-24 was `1,56,155.82 crore constituting
B. Results from operations services, operating lease rentals on assets, interest and Energy charges for coal-based station are to be calculated 94% of the Total income. The income from energy sales
surcharge received from the beneficiaries, interest earned based on normative heat rate, normative APC, weighted (including electricity duty) has decreased by 1.02% over the
1. Total Income (Note-40 & Note-41) on investments such as term deposits with banks, interest average landed price of primary fuel & secondary fuel and previous year’s income of `1,57,762.43 crore.
` Crore on loan to employees & subsidiary companies, interest on
weighted average GCV of coal on ‘as received’ less 85 Kcal/kg
Capacity charges provisionally billed to beneficiaries for the
other investment in joint venture companies, interest income
Sl. Particulars 2023-24 2022-23 % Change on account of variation during storage & weighted average
year ended 31 March 2024 is `51,405.34 crore (31 March
on non-current trade receivables and dividend from equity
No. GCV of secondary fuel respectively as per the Tariff
2023: `47,631.73 crore). Energy and other charges are billed
investments in subsidiary, joint venture and other companies.
Regulations 2019.
Revenue as per the operational norms specified in the Regulations
The total income for financial year 2023-24 is `1,65,707.27
1 Energy sales 1,56,155.82 1,57,762.43 (1.02)% crore as against `1,67,724.41 crore in the previous year Energy charges for gas-based station have been calculated 2019. The amount billed for the year ended 31 March 2024
(including registering a decrease of 1.20%. The main reasons for based on normative heat rate, weighted average landed price is `96,337.27 crore (31 March 2023: `97,042.05 crore).
electricity duty) decrease in total income are decrease in the energy sales, of primary fuel and weighted average GCV of primary fuel. Capacity charges for the year ended 31 March 2024 have been
2 Sale of energy 3,990.52 3,753.48 6.32% decrease in interest from beneficiaries, interest income on Other charges provisionally recognized considering the provisions of CERC
through trading non-current trade receivables and provisions written back- Tariff Regulations amounting to `54,458.51 crore (31 March
Besides the capacity and energy charges, the other elements
others. 2023: `49,832.28 crore). Energy and Other charges for the
3 Consultancy & 170.59 154.08 10.72% of tariff are:
year ended 31 March 2024 have been recognized at
other services The major revenue comes from energy sales. The tariff for
• Special Allowance: For the financial year 2023-24, special `98,307.09 crore (31 March 2023: `1,00,306.61 crore) as per
computing energy sales is determined in terms of CERC
4 Lease rentals 19.58 19.58 - allowance has been considered for units which have the operational norms specified in the Regulations 2019.
Regulations as notified from time to time, which are briefly
on assets on completed 25 years as on 31 March 2023 in terms of
discussed below: Capacity charges for the year ended 31 March 2024 include
operating lease Tariff Regulations 2019.
`1,661.51 crore (31 March 2023: `1,829.50 crore) pertaining
1,60,336.51 1,61,689.57 (0.84)% Tariff for computation of sale of energy
• Sharing of gains due to variation in norms: As per to earlier years on account of impact of CERC orders and other
Other operating revenues CERC vide notification dated 7 March 2019 notified the Tariff Regulation 60, financial gains on account of controllable adjustments. Energy and other charges for the year ended
5 Interest from 1,512.58 1,609.33 (6.01)% Regulations 2019, effective for the period 2019-24. Further, parameters - station heat rate, auxiliary consumption, 31 March 2024 include `327.76 crore (31 March 2023:
beneficiaries CERC vide notifications dated 25 August 2020 and 19 February and secondary fuel oil consumption, have been `3,206.12 crore) pertaining to earlier years on account of
2021 notified the CERC (Terms and Conditions of Tariff) First
200 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 201
revision of energy charges due to grade slippages and other Sale of captive coal Other income (Note-41) The expenditure incurred on fuel, employee benefits and
adjustments. Other adjustments during previous year include other expenses for the financial year 2023-24 was
CERC vide notification dated 19 February 2021, notified the The break-up of other income is as under:
an amount of `3,097.04 crore on account of adjustment of `1,14,921.02 crore as against the expenditure of
Second amendment to Tariff Regulations 2019, which inter ` Crore
‘Net movement in regulatory deferral account balances (net `1,16,885.12 crore incurred during the previous year. In terms
alia includes mechanism for determination of transfer price
Particulars 2023-24 2022-23
of taxes)’ relating to reimbursement of ash transportation of expenses per unit of power produced, it was `3.19 per
of coal from integrated coal mines to generating stations and
cost. Interest from unit in the financial year 2023-24 as against `3.40 per unit in
are effective for the period 2019-24. Coal extracted from
Sales for the year ended 31 March 2024 also include Nil (31 Company’s captive mines and supplied to generating stations Advance to contractors and 113.65 166.02 the previous year. These components are discussed below.
March 2023: `262.97 crore) on account of income tax have been accounted considering these Regulations. suppliers 2.1.1 Fuel cost (Note-42)
recoverable from the beneficiaries as per Regulations, 2004 Non-current trade receivables 155.96 149.88
Interest from beneficiaries Expenditure on fuel was `94,037.49 crore in the financial year
and `124.70 crore (31 March 2023: `87.51 crore) on account Loan to subsidiary companies 94.29 81.45 2023-24 in comparison to `96,851.50 crore in the financial
of deferred tax materialized which is recoverable from CERC Regulations provides that where after the truing-up,
Loan to employees 62.98 61.92 year 2022-23. The fuel-wise break-up of fuel cost is detailed
beneficiaries as per Regulations, 2019. Energy sales include the tariff recovered is less/more than the tariff approved by
as under:
electricity duty amounting to `1,668.20 crore (31 March the Commission, the generating Company shall recover from Deposits with banks 218.40 67.76
` Crore
2023: `1,516.71 crore). /pay to the beneficiaries the under/over recovered amount Income tax refunds 296.71 1.13
along-with simple interest. Accordingly, the interest Fuel Type 2023-24 2022-23 % Change
Others 107.38 94.61
The average tariff for the financial year 2023-24 is `4.61/kWh
recoverable from the beneficiaries amounting to `1,512.58 Coal 87,985.99 92,081.38 (4.45)%
as against `4.89/kWh for the previous year. The average tariff Dividend from subsidiaries, 1,639.08 2,342.54
crore (31 March 2023: `1,609.33 crore) has been recognised
includes adjustments pertaining to previous years. If the joint ventures and other Gas 4,604.50 3,052.30 50.85%
during the year as Interest from beneficiaries.
impact of such adjustments were to be excluded, the average investments Naphtha 2.91 158.43 (98.16)%
tariff would be `4.55/kWh in the financial year 2023-24 as Energy internally consumed Other non-operating income
Oil 1,285.57 1,495.00 (14.01)%
against `4.73/kWh in the previous year.
Energy internally consumed relates to own consumption of Surcharge from beneficiaries 303.42 429.82
Biomass pellets 158.52 64.39 146.19%
Sale of energy through trading power for construction works at station(s), township power
Provisions written back 215.47 124.06
consumption, etc. It is valued at variable cost of generation TOTAL 94,037.49 96,851.50 (2.91)%
Your Company is purchasing power from the developers and Sale of scrap 180.60 148.67
and is shown in ‘Revenue from operations’ with a debit to
selling it to the DISCOMs on principal-to-principal basis.
Includes the cost of captive coal `4,383.95 crore (FY 2022-23:
corresponding expense head under power charges. The value Others 354.47 343.05 `3,039.06 crore) & adjustment due to Intra company elimination by
During the financial year, your Company has accounted sales
of energy internally consumed during the financial 2023-24 Total 3,742.41 4,010.91 (-) `5,579.79 crore (FY 2022-23: (-) `3,980.12 crore). Includes
of energy purchased from solar power plants set up under
was `77.90 crore as compared to `92.04 crore in the previous adjustment related to earlier years, (-) `4.88 crore (FY 2022-23:
National Solar Mission of `3,990.52 crore (31 March 2023: Less: Transferred to EDC (net)/ 20.17 56.27
financial year. `55.64 crore).
`3,753.48 crore). development of coal mines
Interest income on assets on finance lease The expenditure towards fuel has decreased by 12.32% due
Net other income 3,722.24 3,954.64
Consultancy and other services
to price variation mostly on account of lesser quantity of
The Company had ascertained that the PPA entered into for
During the financial year 2023-24, Consultancy, project Other income has decreased by `232.40 crore mainly due to Imported Coal purchased. However, there is an increase in
Stage-I of a power station with the beneficiary falls under
management and supervision fees amounted to `170.59 decrease in dividend income & surcharge from beneficiaries. fuel cost by 9.47% because of quantity variation as a result
the definition of finance lease. Accordingly, recovery of
crore as against `154.08 crore in the previous financial year. However, same is offset to some extent by increase in Interest of increased commercial generation in coal & gas plants.
capacity charges towards depreciation (including AAD),
from deposits with banks and income tax refunds. There is also a decrease of 0.06% due to decrease in previous
Lease rentals on assets on operating lease interest on loan capital & return on equity (pre-tax)
year fuel cost. These expenses account for 82% of operational
components from the beneficiary are being adjusted against 2. Expenses (Statement of Profit & Loss and Note-42, 43,
The Power Purchase Agreements (PPA) signed in respect of expenditure in the financial year 2023-24.
FLR. Accordingly, an amount of `23.81 crore has been 44, 45 & 46)
one of the power stations was operative initially for a period
of five years with the beneficiary which may be extended, recognised in the financial year 2023-24 as compared to 2.1 Expenses related to operations 2.1.2 Employee benefits expense (Note-43)
`32.53 crore in the previous financial year.
renewed or replaced as the parties mutually agree. The FY 2023-24 2022-23 Employee benefits expense includes salaries & wages, bonus,
Company has continued to classify this arrangement with its Provision written back allowances, benefits, contribution to provident & other funds
Commercial 3,60,596 3,43,959
customers as lease based on the practical expedient provided and welfare expenses. Employee benefits expense have
Provision amounting to `16.48 crore has been written back generation (MUs)
in Appendix C of Ind AS 116. Accordingly, recovery of capacity marginally increased to `5,670.10 crore in the financial year
charges towards depreciation, interest on loan capital & during the financial year 2023-24 mainly on account of tariff Expenses ````` Crore ````` per ````` Crore ````` per 2023-24 from `5,559.03 crore in the financial year 2022-23.
adjustments. During the financial year 2022-23, Provision was kWh kWh
return on equity (pre-tax) components from the beneficiary However, in terms of expenses per unit of generation, it
written back towards water conservation fund at few projects
are considered as lease rentals on assets on operating lease. Fuel cost 94,037.49 2.61 96,851.50 2.82 remains unchanged at `0.16 in the financial year 2023-24.
of the Company amounting to `242.98 crore.
Accordingly, lease rentals amounting to `19.58 crore has been Employee 5,670.10 0.16 5,559.03 0.16 These expenses account for approximately 5% of operational
recognised in the financial year 2023-24 (31 March 2023: benefits expenditure in the financial year 2023-24.
`19.58 crore). expense 2.1.3 Other expenses (Note-46)
Other expenses 15,213.43 0.42 14,474.59 0.42 Other expenses primarily consist of the expenses for repair
Total 1,14,921.02 3.19 1,16,885.12 3.40 and maintenance of plant & equipment, buildings, water
charges, security expenses, CSR expenses, electricity duty,
Expenses indicated above includes expenses of consultancy and coal
mining.
202 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 203
travelling, power charges, insurance, loss on fair valuation of Finance costs has increased by 3% over previous financial year provision of `4,499.91 crore made for the financial year 2022- 6. Profit after tax
non-current trade receivables at amortised cost, interest to mainly due to increase in the average cost of borrowings from 23. Current tax provision is mainly lower because of lower
The profit of the Company after tax is tabulated below:
beneficiaries, ash utilization and marketing expenses, training 6.40% to 6.67% on account of higher rate of interest on new/ PBT in the financial year 2023-24 and due to reversal of tax
` Crore
and recruitment and provisions. Other expenses increased existing borrowings. provision of `152.63 crore pertaining to earlier years’ income
to `15,213.43 crore in the financial year 2023-24 from as against additional tax of `206.35 crore on receipt of orders Particulars 2023-24 2022-23
2.4 Depreciation, amortization and impairment expense
`14,474.59 crore in the financial year 2022-23. However, in (Note-45) pertaining to earlier years during previous year. Profit before tax and regulatory 23,545.17 24,067.09
terms of expenses per unit of generation, it remains Provision for deferred tax deferral account balances
unchanged at `0.42 in the financial year 2023-24 as compared The depreciation, amortization and impairment expense
Less: Tax expense 6,600.03 6,279.27
to previous year. These expenses account for 13% of charged to the Statement of Profit and Loss during the Net increase in deferred tax liability during the year
operational expenditure in the financial year 2023-24. financial year 2023-24 was `13,943.15 crore as compared to amounting to `2,658.30 crore (previous year: `1,779.36 Add: Net movement in 1,134.25 (591.09)
`13,136.71 crore in the financial year 2022-23, registering crore) has been debited to the Statement of Profit and Loss. regulatory deferral account
Other expenses for the year also include an amount of `77.09
an increase of 6%. This is mainly due to increase in the gross balances (net of tax)
crore being the amount appropriated by Ministry of Coal for Details of tax expense
non-adherence to certain parameters in respect of Talaipalli PPE by `29,252.13 crore in the financial year 2023-24 over ` Crore Profit after tax 18,079.39 17,196.73
the previous year.
and Chatti Bariatu coal mines. May also refer to Note 46 - Particulars 2023-24 2022-23
7. Other comprehensive income
‘Other expenses’ of the financial statements explaining 2.5 Exceptional items in the Statement of Profit and Loss
Provision for current year 4,094.36 4,293.56
reasons for significant items of expenses. (Note-51) The other comprehensive income net of tax for the financial
Adjustments for earlier years (152.63) 206.35
2.2 Energy purchased for trading The Company has an investment of `834.55 crore in Ratnagiri
year 2023-24 is `15.26 crore in comparison to (-) `75.70 crore
Current tax 3,941.73 4,499.91 for the financial year 2022-23. For the financial year 2023-
Gas & Power Pvt. Ltd. (RGPPL). The entire investment was
Company has incurred expenditure of `3,881.66 crore in the considered impaired and provided for in the earlier years Deferred tax liability 4,093.09 4,532.62 24, net actuarial loss on defined benefit plans is (-) `128.00
financial year 2023-24 as compared to `3,656.26 crore in the crore, while net gain on fair value of equity instruments is
based on the financial position of the Subsidiary. During the MAT Credit (1,434.79) (2,753.26)
previous year on purchase of energy for trading from solar
year, fair valuation of investments in RGPPL was carried out
`120.90 crore as against net actuarial loss on defined benefit
Deferred tax 2,658.30 1,779.36
power plants set up under National Solar Mission. plan and net gain on fair value of equity instrument
and as per the valuation, the provision made in the earlier
2.3 Finance costs (Note-44) years has been written back and disclosed as an Exceptional
Total Tax expense 6,600.03 6,279.27 amounting to (-) `96.09 crore and `3.60 crore respectively in
the previous year.
item in the Statement of Profit and Loss. Refer Note-51 of
The finance costs for the financial year 2023-24 are 5. Net movement in regulatory deferral account balances
financial statements for detailed disclosure. C. Cash flows
`10,250.82 crore in comparison to `9,979.23 crore in the (net of tax) (Note-70)
financial year 2022-23. The details of interest and other 3. Profit before tax & Regulatory deferral account balances Statement of cash flows comprises of cash flows from
Net movements in regulatory deferral account balances (net
borrowing costs are tabulated below: operating activities, investing activities and financing
The profit of the Company before tax & Regulatory deferral of tax) for the financial year 2023-24 is `1,134.25 crore in
` Crore activities. Net cash generated from operating activities
account balances is tabulated below: comparison to (-) `591.09 crore for the financial year 2022-
Particulars 2023-24 2022-23 ` Crore 23 as detailed below: decreased to `34,830.91 crore during the financial year 2023-
24 as compared to `42,351.34 crore in the previous year
Finance costs on financial Particulars 2023-24 2022-23 ` Crore
majorly due to working capital changes amounting to
liabilities measured at
Total Income 1,65,707.27 1,67,724.41 Particulars 2023-24 2022-23 `7,594.15 crore.
amortized cost
Less: Exchange differences (1,262.44) 960.93
Borrowings-Domestic/Foreign 11,434.38 11,490.32 Cash outflows on investing activities arise from expenditure
-Bonds/Loans/Notes Expenditure related 1,14,921.02 1,16,885.12 Pay Revision (6.56) (0.49) on setting up power projects, acquisition of power plants,
to operations Deferred tax 2,808.05 1,650.50 investments in joint ventures & subsidiaries and tax outflow
Cash credit, Commercial papers 868.93 780.68
and unwinding of discount on Electricity purchased 3,881.66 3,656.26 Ash transportation cost - (3,090.42) on income from investing activities. Cash inflows arise from
for trading interest from banks and dividend income from joint ventures
vendor liabilities/provisions Sub-total (i) 1,539.05 (479.48)
and subsidiaries. Cash invested on purchase of fixed assets
Finance costs 10,250.82 9,979.23
Sub-total 12,303,.31 12,271.00 Amount realized/ recognized
increased from `17,320.53 crore in financial year 2022-23 to
Depreciation, amortisation 13,943.15 13,136.71
Exchange differences 82.90 457.54 during the year (ii) (164.67) (236.75) `17,444.27 crore in financial year 2023-24. Cash inflow on
and impairment expense
regarded as an adjustment Net movement in regulatory 1,374.38 (716.23) account of dividend received has decreased from `1,992.54
to borrowing costs Add: deferral account balances crore in previous year to `1,765.59 crore in the financial year
Others 42.77 36.64 Exceptional items 834.55 - (i)+(ii) (I) 2023-24. Considering all the investing activities, the net cash
used in investing activities was `15,118.16 crore in the
Finance costs before EDC 12,428.98 12,756.18 Profit before tax and 23,545.17 24,067.09 Tax on net movements in 240.13 (125.14)
financial year 2023-24 as compared to `14,100.69 crore in
Less: Transferred to regulatory deferral regulatory deferral account
the previous year.
account balances balances (II)
Expenditure during 1,993.72 2,589.03
During the financial year 2023-24, the Company had an inflow
construction period (net) Total amount recognized 1,134.25 (591.09)
4. Tax expense (Note-55) of `16,334.16 crore from non-current borrowings as against
in the statement of profit
Development of coal mines 184.44 196.92
Provision for current tax and loss [I-II]
`16,257.48 in the previous year and net inflow of `3,907.17
Total Finance costs 10,250.82 9,979.23 crore from current borrowings as against outflow of `2,511.28
A provision of `3,941.73 crore has been made towards Refer Note-70 of financial statements for detailed disclosures.
crore in the previous year. Cash used for repayment of non-
current tax for the financial year 2023-24 as against the
204 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 205
current borrowings during the financial year 2023-24 was ` Crore ` Crore CAUTIONARY STATEMENT
`20,048.84 crore as against `22,371.86 crore repaid in the
Sl. Company NTPC’s Total Profit/ Sl. Company NTPC’s NTPC’s Total Profit/ Statements in the Management Discussion and Analysis and
previous year. Interest paid during the year was `12,383.23
No. investment Income (Loss) for No. Ownership Investment Income (Loss) in the Directors’ Report, describing the Company’s objectives,
crore as compared to `12,557.58 crore during the previous in equity the year (%) in equity for the projections and estimates, contain words or phrases such as
year. Cash used for paying dividend was `7,272.50 crore. Thus, year (NTPC
8 NTPC Green Energy “will”, “aim”, “believe”, “expect”, “intend”, “estimate”, “plan”,
from financing activities during the year, the Company has Share)
Limited 5,719.61 2,037.66 342.86 “objective”, “contemplate”, “project” and similar expressions
an outflow of `19,518.72 crore as against an outflow of B. Joint venture companies incorporated outside India
or variations of such expressions, are “forward-looking” and
`28,365.00 crore in the previous year. 9 NTPC EDMC Waste
15 Trincomalee Power 50.00 1.36 0.05 (0.16) progressive within the meaning of applicable laws and
Cash, cash equivalents and cash flows on various activities is Solutions Pvt. Ltd. 0.15 - (0.02) Company Ltd., regulations. Actual results may vary materially from those
summarized below: 10 Ratnagiri Gas & Sri Lanka expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements due
` Crore Power Pvt. Ltd. 834.55 3,095.31 1,734.23 16 Bangladesh-India 50.00 1,324.02 3,313.78 289.68 to risks or uncertainties associated therewith depending upon
Friendship Power
Total 22,177.16 20,483.62 3,896.74 economic conditions, government policies and other
Particulars 2023-24 2022-23 Company Private
incidental factors. Readers are cautioned not to place undue
Ltd., Bangladesh
Opening cash & cash 3.13 117.48
FINANCIAL SUMMARY OF JOINT VENTURE reliance on these forward-looking statements.
equivalents Total 10,228.79 41,413.35 1,635.60
COMPANIES
Net cash from 34,830.91 42,351.34
operating activities Proportion of ownership and financial performance of the Consolidated financial results For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
joint venture companies for the financial year 2023-24 are A brief summary of the financial results on a consolidated
Net cash used in (15,118.16) (14,100.69)
given below: basis is given below: Sd/-
investing activities
` Crore (Gurdeep Singh)
` Crore
Net cash inflow/(outflow) (19,518.72) (28,365.00)
Sl. Company NTPC’s NTPC’s Total Profit/ Chairman & Managing Director
from financing activities Particulars 2023-24 2022-23
No. Ownership Investment Income (Loss) Place: New Delhi
Change in cash and 194.03 (114.35) (%) in equity for the Total income 1,81,165.86 1,77,976.39 Date: 2 August 2024
cash equivalents year (NTPC Profit before tax and 27,141.45 24,330.59
Closing cash & cash 197.16 3.13 Share) regulatory deferral
equivalents A. Joint venture companies incorporated in India account balances
1 Utility Powertech Ltd. 50.00 1.00 571.24 (2.88) Tax Expense 6,809.20 6,796.12
FINANCIAL SUMMARY OF SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES 2 NTPC-GE Power 50.00 3.00 511.36 6.34
Profit before regulatory 20,332.25 17,534.47
Services Pvt. Ltd.
The Company has 10 subsidiary companies as on 31 March deferral account balances
3 NTPC-SAIL Power 50.00 490.25 3,870.59 217.92
2024, out of which 5 (NESCL, NVVN, NML, NEEPCO & NGEL) Net movement in regulatory 1,000.20 (413.12)
Co. Ltd.
are wholly owned by the Company. A summary of the financial deferral account balances
4 NTPC Tamil Nadu 50.00 1,466.40 4,381.41 293.41
performance of the subsidiary companies during the financial (net of tax)
Energy Co. Ltd.
year 2023-24 is given below:
Profit for the year 21,332.45 17,121.35
` Crore 5 Aravali Power Co. 50.00 1,433.01 5,463.41 376.92
Pvt. Ltd. Other comprehensive (24.61) (203.00)
Sl. Company NTPC’s Total Profit/ 6 Meja Urja Nigam 50.00 1,826.33 4,283.31 174.05 income (net of tax)
No. investment Income (Loss) for
Pvt. Ltd. Total comprehensive 21,307.84 16,918.35
in equity the year
7 NTPC-BHEL Power 50.00 - 20.00 - income for the year
1 NTPC Electric Supply 0.08 1.18 0.04 Project Pvt. Ltd.
Company Ltd. 8 National High Power 21.63 12.32 46.11 (6.08)
2 Bhartiya Rail Bijlee 1,774.12 3,721.22 517.01 Test Laboratory
Pvt. Ltd.
Company Ltd.
9 Transformers and 44.60 5.47 131.21 (1.94)
3 NTPC Vidyut Vyapar
Electricals Kerala Ltd.
Nigam Ltd. 30.00 5,351.06 160.94
10 Energy Efficiency 39.25 697.51 1,856.33 (49.36)
4 Patratu Vidyut Services Ltd.
Utpadan Nigam Ltd. 2,164.55 0.11 (0.01)
11 CIL NTPC Urja Pvt. Ltd. 50.00 0.08 0.06 0.02
5 NTPC Mining Limited 154.10 0.24 (3.42) 12 Anushakti Vidyut 49.00 0.05 - -
6 North-Eastern Electric Nigam Ltd.
Power Corporation Ltd. 4,000.00 4,264.23 548.14 13 Hindustan Urvarak 29.67 2,642.99 14,987.43 392.98
and Rasayan Ltd.
7 THDC India Ltd. 7,500.00 2,012.61 596.97
14 Jhabua Power Limited 50.00 325.00 1,977.06 (55.30)
206 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 207
Annexure - II to Directors’ Report independent directors and Non-Executive Director (other than Independent Director) has been made to the Administrative
Ministry i.e. Ministry of Power from time to time.
Report on Corporate Governance
The Board composition and other directorship details of each Director, as on 31st March 2024, are detailed here under:
Sl. Director Designation DIN No. of Directors in No. of Committee
Corporate governance is a set of rules, controls and policies strategic decision making and leadership of the company. It No Directorships other Listed Memberships in
put in place to ensure greater accuracy and transparency in provides strategic direction and leadership and oversees the in Other Entities & other Companies
management and control, ultimately building trust in the management policies and their effectiveness, looking at the Companies Category
company’s ability to maximize value for all stakeholders. long-term interests of shareholders and other stakeholders.
As ChairmanAs Member
In the age of rapid evolution, where environmental and The Board performs key functions by fulfilling the
1 Shri Gurdeep Singh Chairman & 00307037 1 - - -
regulatory compliances are escalating, corporate governance responsibilities for achieving economy, efficiency and
Managing Director
has become more pervasive. Corporate Governance is viewed effectiveness for the Company vis-à-vis shareholders’ value
as both the structure and the relationship which determine creation. It has ultimate responsibility for the development 2 Shri Dillip Kumar Patel4 Director (Human 08695490 9 - 1 -
corporate direction and performance. The Board of Directors of strategy, management, general affairs, direction, Resources)
is central to Corporate Governance and the Board of our performance and long-term success of the business as a 3 Shri Jaikumar Srinivasan Director (Finance) 01220828 7 - - 5
company is accountable, fair, and conscious in strengthening whole.
4 Shri Shivam Srivastava1 Director (Fuel) 10141887 2 - - -
highest quality standards of corporate governance.
The Board functions in accordance with the powers delegated
5 Shri K. Shanmugha Director (Projects) 10347322 7 - - -
This report is prepared in accordance with the provisions of under the Companies Act, 2013, SEBI (LODR), Memorandum
Sundaram2
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) & Articles of Association, Maharatna Guidelines issued by DPE
Regulations, 2015 (‘SEBI LODR’) and Guidelines on Corporate and other guidelines issued by the Government of India from 6 Shri Ravindra Kumar3 Director 10523088 4 - - -
Governance for Central Public Sector Enterprises 2010 issued time to time, as may be applicable to the Company. (Operations)
by Department of Public Enterprises (‘DPE’), Ministry of
2.1 Size & Composition of the Board 7 Shri Piyush Singh Director (Govt. 07492389 1 - - -
Finance, Government of India., highlighting corporate
Nominee)
governance methodology at NTPC Limited. NTPC Limited (‘NTPC’ or ‘the Company’) is a Government
Company within the meaning of Section 2(45) of the 8 Shri Vidyadhar Independent 02667949 - - - -
1. NTPC’s Corporate Governance Philosophy Companies Act, 2013. As mandated by the Articles of Vaishampayan Director
Association of the Company, all Directors on Board are
9 Shri Vivek Gupta Independent 08794502 1 - - -
OUR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PHILOSPHY appointed by the President of India. Presently, the sanctioned
Director
composition of the Board is as under:
“As a good corporate governance citizen, our company
10 Shri Jitendra Jayantilal Independent 09403346 - - - -
is committed to sound corporate practices based on (i) Six (6) Functional Directors including the Chairman &
Tanna Director
conscience, openness, fairness, professionalism and Managing Director,
accountability besides building confidence in its various 11 Smt. Sangitha Varier Independent 09402812 - - - -
(ii) Two (2) Government Nominee Directors, and
stakeholders, thereby paving the way for the long term Director
success.” (iii) Eight (8) Independent Directors, including one-woman
1. Appointed as Director on 30.04.2023 2. Appointed as Director on 01.12.2023 3. Appointed as Director on 26.02.2024
Independent Director as per the requirements of the
The essence of corporate governance is to stimulate and 4. Ceased to be director on 30.04.2024
SEBI (LODR).
maintain integrity, transparency, and accountability in the
higher management’s performance. It is all about maintaining However, against the sanctioned strength, as on 31st March None of the directors on Board is a member of more than 10 Government of India till the age of superannuation i.e. 60
a valuable relationship with all the stakeholders and hence 2024 the Board of Directors of the Company comprise of: Committees or Chairperson of more than 5 Committees years. Independent Directors are appointed by the
we are committed to maximising shareholder’s value to the across all the public companies in which they are a Director Government of India generally for a tenure of three years.
(i) Six (6) Functional Directors,
best possible extent be it Distribution Companies (DISCOMs), as prescribed under Regulation 26 of SEBI (LODR). Government Nominee Directors are appointed on ex- officio
Employees, Investors & Shareholders and Government & (ii) One (1) Government Nominee Director, and None of Directors of the Company is inter-se related to other basis during their tenure in Ministry of Power (MOP).
Regulatory Authorities. (iii) Four (4) Independent Directors. directors of the Company. 2.3. Resume of Directors
Our numerous initiatives in fostering and maintaining the The number of Independent Directors were less than 50% of 2.2. Tenure of Directors Brief resume of directors seeking appointment or re-
highest standards of corporate governance are detailed in total number of Directors during the financial year 2023-24. appointment at the Annual General Meeting is appended to
The Chairman & Managing Director and other whole-time
this report. Additionally, from 1st January 2024 to 31st March 2024, Non- the Notice calling the Annual General Meeting.
Directors are generally appointed for a period of five years
2. The Board of Directors Executive Directors also constituted less than 50% of the total from the date of taking over the charge or until the date of 2.4. Core competencies of Directors
number of Directors. As NTPC is a Government Company, the
superannuation or until further orders from the Government
The Board of Directors is the apex body constituted by request for the appointment of requisite number of The Board comprises qualified members who bring in the
of India, whichever event occurs earliest. The tenure of the
shareholders and plays a crucial role in the overall functioning, required skills, competence and expertise to effectively
whole-time director can be extended further by the
contribute in deliberations at Board and Committee meetings.
208 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 209
The Board of Directors, in its 251st meeting held on 25th Independent Directors required on the Board of the Company. Directors Designation Other Details No. of No. of Whether
November 2003, had approved the job description, In the above Board meeting, the Board decided that the Meetings held meetings attended
qualification and experience for Board level posts including Independent Directors, to be nominated by the Government during the Attended AGM held on
that of the Chairman & Managing Director. The desirable of India on the Board of NTPC should be having expertise in FY/Tenure 30.08.2023
qualification and experience of the incumbents are as per the diverse areas like Economics, Human Resources
Shri Gurdeep Singh Chairman & Managing - 15 15 Yes
the requirements in the functional areas. At the time of Management, Regulatory Framework, Management
Director
recruitment of the Functional Directors, job description, Consultant, Research and Development, Academics, Energy
desirable qualification & experience of candidates are sent & Power Sector, Finance & Banking etc. Shri Dillip Kumar Patel Director (HR) Ceased to be 15 15 Yes
to the Public Enterprise Selection Board through the Director on
The matrix given below summarizes a mix of skills, expertise
Administrative Ministry for announcement of vacancy and 30.04.2024
and competencies possessed by Directors. It is pertinent to
recruitment of candidates.
mention that being a Government Company, appointment Shri Ramesh Babu V Director (Operations) Ceased to be 13 13 Yes
Further, Board of Directors, in 288th meeting held on 26th June of Director is made by the Government of India in accordance Director on
2006, had deliberated on the areas of expertise of with the DPE Guidelines. 31.01.2024
Shri Ujjwal Kanti Director (Projects) Ceased to be 11 11 Yes
Name of Director Designation Area of Skill/Expertise/Competence Bhattacharya Director on
30.11.2023
Shri Jaikumar Srinvasan Director (Finance) - 15 15 Yes
Shri Shivam Srivastava Director (Fuel) Appointed on 14 14 Yes
30.04.2023
Shri K Shanmugha Director (Projects) Appointed on 5 5 NA
Sundaram 01.12.2023
Shri Gurdeep Singh Chairman & Managing
Director Shri Ravindra Kumar Director (Operations) Appointed on 2 2 NA
26.02.2024
Shri Dillip Kumar Patel1 Director(HR)
Shri Ashish Upadhyaya Govt. Nominee Director Ceased to be 12 12 Yes
Shri Jaikumar Srinivasan Director(Finance)
Director on
Shri Shivam Srivastava2 Director (Fuel)
31.12.2023
Shri K. Shanmugha Director (Projects)
Shri Piyush Singh Govt. Nominee Director - 15 14 Yes
Sundaram3
Shri Vidyadhar Independent Director - 15 15 Yes
Shri Ravindra Kumar4 Director (Operation)
Vaishampayan
Shri Piyush Singh Nominee Director
Shri Vivek Gupta Independent Director - 15 15 Yes
Shri Vidyadhar Independent Director
Shri Jitendra Jayantilal Independent Director - 15 15 Yes
Vaishampayan Tanna
Shri Vivek Gupta Independent Director Smt. Sangitha Varier Independent Director - 15 15 Yes
Shri Jitendra Jayantilal Independent Director
Tanna 2.6 Board Independence Committee of Board of Directors and Director by the
Smt. Sangitha Varier Independent Director All the Independent Directors have given the declaration that Nomination & Remuneration Committee. The aforesaid
circular of MCA further exempted listed Govt. Companies
they meet the criteria of independence to the Board of
1. Ceased to be director on 30.04.2024 2. Appointed as Director on 30.04.2023 3. Appointed as Director on 01.12.2023
from provisions of Section 134(3)(p) which requires
4. Appointed as Director on 26.02.2024 Directors as per the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013
mentioning the manner of formal evaluation of its own
and SEBI (LODR). Terms and conditions of appointment of
performance by the Board and that of its Committees and
independent directors are hosted on the website of the
Individual Director in Board’s Report, if directors are evaluated
Company at
by the Ministry or Department of the Central Government https://www.ntpc.co.in/sites/default/files/inline-files/CommontermsandconditionsofappointmentofIndependentDirectors.pdf
which is administratively in charge of the company, or, as the 2.7 Performance Evaluation of Board Members
case may be, the State Government as per its own evaluation
Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) vide General Circular methodology. In this regard, DPE has already laid down a
dated 5th June 2015 has exempted Government Companies mechanism for performance appraisal of all functional
from the provisions of Section 178 (2) which provides about directors. In case of Government Nominee Directors, their
manner of performance evaluation of Board of Directors, evaluation is done by the Ministry or Department of the
210 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 211
/lacinhceT gnireenignE & ygrenE rewoP & ecnaniF gniknaB scimonocE namuH ecruoseR yrotalugeR krowemarF tnemeganaM tnemnorivnE scimedacA & hcraeseR tnempoleveD
2.5 Board Meetings during the Year 2023, 28th October 2023, 29th November 2023 (continued on
2nd December 2023), 30th December 2023, 29th January 2024, During the financial year ended 31st March 2024, fifteen (15)
3rd March 2024 and 30th March 2024. Details of attendance meetings of the Board were held on 12th April 2023, 6th May
of Directors in the Board meeting held during FY 2023-24 are 2023, 19th May 2023, 24th June 2023, 29th July 2023, 16th
as under: August 2023, 19th August 2023, 29th August 2023, 7th October
Central Government which is administratively in charge of • Minutes of meetings of Audit Committee, Board current meeting. issues. The details of such committees are given below.
the company as per the procedure laid down by them. DPE meetings and other Committees of the Board.
• Any other information as may be required to be 3.1 Audit Committee
has also initiated evaluation of Independent Directors. In view
• Minutes of meetings of Board of Directors of subsidiary presented to the Board for information or approval.
of above, as per requirement of Regulation 17(10) of the SEBI The composition, quorum, scope, etc. of the Audit Committee
companies.
(LODR), evaluation of Independent Director was not made The important decisions taken at the Board/Committee are in line with the Companies Act, 2013, SEBI (LODR) and
by the Board of Directors. Further, as Directors are appointed • Fatal or serious accidents, dangerous occurrences, etc. meetings are communicated to the concerned departments DPE Guidelines on Corporate Governance.
by the Government of India, succession planning at the Board • Operational highlights and substantial non-payment for promptly. Composition, Meetings & Attendance
level was not done by the Company.
goods sold by the Company. 3. Board Committees
The details of the Audit Committee constitution as on 31st
The Company enters Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) • Award of large value contracts. With a view to ensure effective decision making, the Board March 2024, meeting held during FY 2023-24 and attendance
with Ministry of Power (MoP) every year wherein Company of Directors has constituted various Statutory and Non- thereat are as under:
• Disclosure of Interest by Directors about directorships
is evaluated on various financial and non-financial
Statutory Committees to have focused attention on crucial
and committee positions occupied by them in other
parameters. The performance of the Company & Board of
companies.
Directors is evaluated by the Department of Public Enterprises
Sl. No. Names Designation Total No. of Meetings Held Total No. of Meetings Attended
in terms of MoU entered with MoP. • Declaration of independence by Independent Directors.
1 Shri Jitendra Jayantilal Tanna Chairman 11 11
2.8 Meeting of Independent Directors • Quarterly Report on foreign exchange exposures.
2 Shri Ashish Upadhyaya* Member 7 7
In conformity with Regulation 25(3) of SEBI(LODR) separate • Quarterly status of investors complaints.
3 Shri Vivek Gupta Member 11 11
meeting of Independent Directors was held during the
• Quarterly Report on Foreign Travel of Chairman &
financial year. In the meeting Independent Directors reviewed 4 Shri Vidyadhar Vaishampayan Member 11 11
Managing Director, Functional Directors and Employees.
and assessed the performance of the non-independent 5 Smt. Sangitha Varier Member 11 11
Directors and the Board as a whole, the quality, quantity, and • Quarterly Report on Short Term Deposits and
*Ceased to be a director on 31.12.2023
timeliness of flow of information between the Company Investments.
management and the Board necessary for effective and • Report on Contract awarded on nomination basis. During the FY 2023-24, eleven (11) meetings of the Audit 3. Approval or any subsequent modification of
reasonable performance of their duties including the Committee were held. The meetings of Audit Committee transactions of the Company with related parties.
performance of the Chairman & Managing Director. • Quarterly Report on Reconciliation of Share Capital were held on 5th May 2023, 19th May 2023, 28th July 2023,
Audit. 4. Scrutiny of inter-corporate loans and investments.
2.9 Information Provided to the Board 16th August 2023, 29th August 2023, 28th October 2023, 29th
• Quarterly Report on Business Activities of various Joint November 2023, 16th January 2024, 29th January 2024, 2nd 5. Reviewing with the management, the quarterly financial
Access to information is of vital importance to assess the value
Venture Companies and Subsidiaries of NTPC. March 2024 and 29th March 2024. results before submission to the Board for approval.
of company’s assets and deploy or redeploy capital towards
the opportunities with growth prospects and attractive • Quarterly Report on Compliance of various laws Director (Finance) is the permanent invitee to the Audit 6. Reviewing, with the management, the annual financial
returns. including show cause demand, prosecution notices. Committee meetings. Head of Internal Audit Department and statements and draft auditor’s report thereon before
Senior Executives are invited to the Audit Committee submission to the board for approval, with particular
Our Company has a sound framework and integration of all • Quarterly Report on Compliance with Corporate
Meetings for interacting with the members of the Committee, reference to:
departments and units to ensure seamless and timely flow Governance norms.
if required. The Joint Statutory Auditors and Cost Auditors of
a. Matters required to be included in the Director’s
of information both vertically and horizontally. The Board has • Non-compliance of any regulatory, statutory or listing the Company are also invited to the meetings of the Audit
Responsibility Statement to be included in the
absolute access to all data, documents, reports to enable the requirements and shareholders services such as non- Committee while discussing financial statements/ financial
Board’s report in terms of clause (c) of sub-section
Board to make timely and informed decisions and exercise payment of dividend, delay in share transfer, etc. results and Cost Audit Reports respectively.
3 of section 134 of the Companies Act, 2013;
control over the organisation. Information provided to the
Board generally includes: • Appointment of Key Managerial Personnel and The Company Secretary acts as the Secretary to the b. Changes, if any, in accounting policies and practices
information on recruitment and promotion of senior Committee.
and reasons for the same;
• Annual operating plans and budgets and any updates. officers to the level of Executive Director which is just
Scope of Audit Committee
• Capital Budgets and any updates. below the Board level including appointment and c. Major accounting entries involving estimates
removal of Chief Financial Officer and Company The scope of Audit Committee is as under:- based on the exercise of judgment by
• Quarterly financial results.
Secretary. management;
1. To conduct detailed discussions during pre and post
• Financial Statements and Board’s Report (including the
• Any significant development in Human Resources/ commencement audit meetings with auditors on scope d. Significant adjustments made in the financial
Annexures thereto).
Industrial Relations like signing of wage agreement, of audit and potential areas of concern for process and statements arising out of audit findings;
• Major investments, formation of subsidiaries and Joint implementation of Voluntary Retirement Scheme, etc. functional improvements.
e. Compliance with listing and other legal
Ventures or collaboration agreement, Strategic Alliances
• Sale of investments, subsidiaries, assets which are 2. Facilitate communication for important information requirements relating to financial statements;
etc.
material in nature and not in normal course of business dissemination among the independent auditors,
f. Disclosure of related party transactions;
• Details of amount borrowed by the Company. Information relating to major legal disputes. internal auditors, and the Board of Directors.
g. Qualifications in the draft audit report
• Highlights of important events from last meeting to the
h. modified opinion(s) in the draft audit report.
212 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 213
7. Noting the appointment and removal of independent 19. Review with the independent auditor the co-ordination & rules made thereunder, SEBI (LODR) and DPE Composition, Meeting & Attendance
auditors. Recommending audit fee of independent of audit efforts to assure completeness of coverage, Guidelines.
The details of constitution of the Stakeholders’ Relationship
auditors and also approval for payment for any other reduction of redundant efforts and the effective use of
3.2. Stakeholders Relationship Committee Committee as on 31st March 2024, meeting details held during
service. all audit resources.
FY 2023-24 and attendance thereat are as under:
This Committee has been constituted in line with the
8. Recommending to the Board the appointment and 20. Reviewing the adequacy of internal audit function, if
provisions of SEBI (LODR) and Companies Act, 2013.
remuneration of the cost auditors of the Company. any, including the structure of the internal audit
department, staffing and seniority of the official heading Sl. No. Names Designation Total No. of Meetings Held Total No. of Meetings Attended
9. Review of observations of C&AG including status of
the department, reporting structure coverage and
Government Audit paras. 1 Shri Vivek Gupta Chairman 2 2
frequency of internal audit.
10. Reviewing with the management, statement of uses/ 2 Shri Ashish Upadhyaya* Member 2 0
21. Consider and review the following with the independent
application of funds raised through an issue (public 3 Shri Vidyadhar Vaishampayan Member 2 2
auditor and the management:
issue, rights issue, preferential issue etc.), statement of
4 Shri Jaikumar Srinivasan Member 2 2
funds utilised for purposes other than those stated in a) The adequacy of internal controls including
the offer documents/prospectus/notice and the report computerized information system controls and * Ceased to be Director on 31.12.2023
submitted by the monitoring agency monitoring the security, and
utilisation of proceeds of a public or rights issue, and Name & Designation of Compliance Officer c) Review of measures taken for effective exercise of voting
b) Related findings and recommendations of the
making appropriate recommendations to the board to rights by shareholders.
independent auditors and internal auditors, The Board of Directors has appointed Ms. Ritu Arora, as the
take up steps in this matter.
together with the management responses. Company Secretary & Compliance Officer of NTPC Limited in d) Review of adherence to the service standards adopted
11. Valuation of undertakings or assets of the company, terms of Regulation 6 of SEBI (LODR) w.e.f 29th January, 2024. by the listed entity in respect of various services being
22. Consider and review the following with the
wherever it is necessary. Prior to this, Mr. Arun Kumar was the Company Secretary & rendered by the Registrar & Share Transfer Agent.
management, internal auditor and the independent
Compliance Officer of NTPC upto 29th January 2024.
12. Evaluation of internal financial controls and risk auditor: e) Review of the various measures and initiatives taken by
management systems. Scope of the Committee the listed entity for reducing the quantum of unclaimed
a) Significant findings during the year, including the
dividends and ensuring timely receipt of dividend
13. To look into the reasons for substantial defaults in the status of previous audit recommendations. The scope of the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee is as
warrants/annual reports/statutory notices by the
payment to the depositors, debenture holders, under:-
b) Any difficulties encountered during audit work shareholders of the company.
shareholders (in case of non-payment of declared
including any restrictions on the scope of activities a) To specifically look into various aspects of interest of
dividends) and creditors. Investor Grievances
or access to required information. shareholders, debenture holders and other security
14. To review the functioning of the Whistle Blower holders. The Company has always valued its investors’ relationship.
23. Review of appointment and removal of the Internal
mechanism. During the financial year ended on 31st March 2024, the
Auditors. b) Resolving the grievances of the security holders of the
Company has attended its investors grievances expeditiously
15. Reviewing the findings of any internal investigations by listed entity including complaints related to transfer/
24. Reviewing, with the management, the performance of except for the cases constrained by disputes or legal
the internal auditors into matters where there is transmission of shares, non-receipt of annual report,
the internal auditors and of the independent auditors impediments. The details of the requests/queries/complaints
suspected fraud or irregularity or a failure of internal non-receipt of declared dividends, issue of new/
and effectiveness of the audit process. received, resolved and disposed of during the year under
control systems of a material nature and reporting the duplicate certificates, general meetings etc.
matter to the Board. 25. Review of internal audit observations outstanding for review are as under:
more than two years.
16. To review the follow up action taken on the
Sl. No. Particulars Opening Balance Received Resolved Pending
recommendations of Committee on Public Undertakings 26. Reviewing the utilization of loans and/ or advances
(COPU) of the Parliament. from/ investment by the holding company in the Complaints relating to
subsidiary exceeding rupees 100 crore or 10% of the
17. Review of: 1 Equity Shares 0 880 880 0
asset size of the subsidiary, whichever is lower including
2 Bonus Debentures 0 838 838 0
a. Management discussion and analysis of financial existing loans / advances / investments.
condition and results of operations; 3 Public Issue of Bonds 0 138 138 0
27. To review compliance with the provisions of SEBI Insider
b. Management letters/ letters of internal control Trading Regulations at least once in a financial year 4 Private Placement of Bonds 0 0 0 0
weaknesses; issued by the statutory auditors
28. To verify that the systems for internal control are
c. Internal Audit Reports relating to internal control adequate and are operating effectively. 3.3. Nomination and Remuneration Committee including Scope of the Committee
weaknesses. PRP
29. To consider and comment on rationale, cost-benefits The scope of Nomination and Remuneration Committee
18. Oversight of the company’s financial reporting process and impact of schemes involving merger, demerger, As per the requirements of Section 178 of the Companies including PRP is as under:
and the disclosure of its financial information to ensure amalgamation etc., on the listed entity and its Act, 2013, Regulation 19 of SEBI (LODR) and DPE Guidelines,
a) Decide the annual bonus/variable pay pool and policy
that the financial statement is correct, sufficient and shareholders. a Nomination & Remuneration Committee (NRC) including
for its distribution across the executives and non-
credible. Performance Related Pay (PRP) has been constituted.
30. Any matter referred to it by the Board or any other terms unionized supervisors, within the prescribed limits
of reference as amended by the Companies Act, 2013
214 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 215
b) Formulation of the criteria for determining Director are appointed by the Government of India. Their
Sl. No. Names Designation Total No. of Meetings Held Total No. of Meetings Attended
qualifications, positive attributes and independence of tenure and remuneration (excluding sitting fee for the
1 Shri Dillip Kumar Patel* Chairman 6 6
a director and recommend to the board of directors a Independent Directors) are also fixed by the Government of
policy relating to, the remuneration of the directors, key India. Accordingly, evaluation of Directors including 2 Shri Ramesh Babu V** Member 6 6
managerial personnel and other employees’ Independent Directors is done by the Government of India.
3 Smt. Sangitha Varier Member 6 6
It may also be noted that Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA)
c) Formulation of criteria for evaluation of performance
4 Shri Jitendra Jayantilal Tanna Member 6 6
vide notification dated 5th June, 2015, has exempted
of independent directors and the board of directors
Government Companies from the provisions of section 5 Shri Vivek Gupta Member 6 6
d) Devising a policy on diversity of board of directors 178(2), (3) and (4) which requires formulation of criteria for
6 Shri Ravindra Kumar*** Member 0 0
determining qualifications, positive attributes, independence
e) Identifying persons who are qualified to become
* Ceased to be Director on 30.04.2024 **Ceased to be Director on 31.01.2024
and annual evaluation of Directors & policy relating to
directors and who may be appointed in senior
***Appointed as Director on 26.02.2024
remuneration of Directors. In view of above, Nomination &
management in accordance with the criteria laid down,
Remuneration Committee including PRP has not formulated
and recommend to the board of directors their
criteria for evaluation of performance of independent
appointment and removal 3.5. Risk Management Committee c) To monitor and oversee implementation of the risk
directors and the board of directors as required under
management policy, including evaluating the adequacy
f) Whether to extend or continue the term of appointment Risk Management has been constituted in line with the
Regulation 19 read with Schedule II Part D of the SEBI (LODR).
of risk management system;
of the independent director, on the basis of the report provisions of Regulation 21 of the SEBI (LODR).
Members, Meetings & Attendance
of performance evaluation of independent directors. d) To periodically review the risk management policy, at
The scope of the Risk Management Committee is as
The details of the constitution of Nomination and least once in two years, including by considering the
g) Recommend to the Board, all remuneration, in whatever under:-
Remuneration Committee as on 31st March 2024, meeting changing industry dynamics and evolving complexity;
form, payable to senior management.
a) To formulate a detailed risk management policy which
details held during FY 2023-24 and attendance thereat are
e) To keep the board of directors informed about the
Being a Government Company, as per the Articles of shall include:
as under:
nature and content of its discussions, recommendations
Association, all Directors including the Chairman & Managing
i. A frame work for identification of internal and
and actions to be taken;
external risks specifically faced by the listed entity,
f) The appointment, removal and terms of remuneration
Sl. No. Names Designation Total No. of Meetings Held Total No. of Meetings Attended in particular including financial, operational,
of the Chief Risk Officer (if any) shall be subject to review
sectoral, sustainability (particularly, ESG related
1 Smt. Sangitha Varier Chairperson 8 8
by the Risk Management Committee.
risks), information, cyber security risks or any other
2 Shri Ashish Upadhyaya* Member 5 3
risks as may be determined by the Committee. Details on risk management mechanisms are given in
3 Shri Jitendra Jayantilal Tanna Member 8 8 the Management Discussion and Analysis report
ii. Measures for risk mitigation including systems and
annexed with the Directors’ Report.
4 Shri Vidyadhar Vaishampayan Member 8 8 processes for internal controls of identified risks.
5 Shri Vivek Gupta Member 8 8 iii. Business continuity plan. Composition, Meetings & Attendance
*Ceased to be Director on 31.12.2023 b) To ensure that appropriate methodology, processes and The details of constitution of the Risk Management
Committee as on 31st March 2024, meetings details held
systems are in placed to monitor and evaluate risks
during FY 2023-24 and attendance thereat are as under:
3.4. Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability - to recommend the amount of expenditure to be associated with the business of the Company;
Committee incurred on the activities specified in the CSR Policy;
Sl. No. Names Designation Total No. of Meetings Held Total No. of Meetings Attended
This Committee has been constituted in line with the - to monitor the Corporate Social Responsibility Policy of
provisions of Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the company from time to time; and 1 Shri Ujjwal Kanti Bhattacharya1 Chairman 1 1
DPE guidelines on Sustainability (SD). - any other matter as the Board may delegate from time 2 Shri K Shanmugha Sundaram2 Chairman 1 1
Scope of the Committee to time. 3 Shri Ramesh Babu V3 Member 2 2
This Committee is constituted Members, Meetings & Attendance 4 Shri Ravindra Kumar 4 Member 0 0
- to formulate and recommend to the Board, Corporate The details of constitution of the Corporate Social 5 Shri Vidyadhar Vaishampayan Member 2 2
Social Responsibility Policy as per Schedule VII of the Responsibility and Sustainability Committee as on 31st March
6 Ms. Sangeeta Kaushik5 Member 1 1
Companies Act, 2013 as amended from time to time; 2024, meeting details held during FY 2023-24 and attendance
7 Shri H K Dash6 Member 1 1
thereat are as under:
1. ceased w.e.f. 30.11.2023 2. Appointed w.e.f. 01.12.2023 3. Ceased w.e.f. 31.01.2024
4. Appointed w.e.f. 26.02.2024 5. Ceased w.e.f. 02-01-2024 6. Appointed w.e.f. 02.01.2024
The scope of the committee is in line with the requirement of SEBI (LODR).
216 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 217
3.6. Other Committees of the Board of Directors
S. No. Name of the Committee Role & Responsibilities in brief Members (As on 31.03.2024)
S. No. Name of the Committee Role & Responsibilities in brief Members (As on 31.03.2024) 8. Committee for Guiding To guide the process of acquisition of 1. Shri Jitendra Jayantilal Tanna
1. Committee on Review of significant deviations in 1. Shri Jaikumar Srinivasan Acquisition of Power power assets and to make 2. Shri Jaikumar Srinivasan
Management Controls project implementation and 2. Shri Ravindra Kumar* Assets recommendation to the Board 3. Shri Shivam Srivastava***
construction, operation and 3. Shri Vivek Gupta 4. Shri K. Shanmugha Sundaram**
maintenance budgets etc. 4. Smt. Sangitha Varier 5. Shri Vivek Gupta
6. Smt. Sangitha Varier
2. Projects Sub-Committee To examine and give recommendations 1. Shri K Shanmugha Sundaram**
to the Board on proposals for Investment 2. Shri Jaikumar Srinivasan 9. Committee of Directors To examine proposals for appointment of 1. Shri Vidyadhar Vaishampayan
in New/ Expansion Projects and approves 3. Shri Ravindra Kumar* on Fuel Management and MDO, review of availability of fuel at 2. Shri Jaikumar Srinivasan
Feasibility Reports of new projects. 4. Shri Vivek Gupta Development & Operation NTPC Stations and to recommend 3. Shri Ravindra Kumar*
5. Shri Vidyadhar Vaishampayan of Coal Blocks measures for improvement etc. 4. Shri Shivam Srivastava***
6. Shri Jitendra Jayantilal Tanna 5. Shri Piyush Singh
3. Committee of Functional Award of works or purchase contracts or 1. Shri Gurdeep Singh 6. Shri Vivek Gupta
Directors for Contracts incurring of commitments exceeding 2. Shri Jaikumar Srinivasan 7. Shri Jitendra Jayantilal Tanna
`300 crore but not exceeding `500 crore. 3. Shri Dillip Kumar Patel# 8. Smt. Sangitha Varier
4. Shri Shivam Srivastava*** 10. Committee for For considering the proposal having 1. Shri Jitendra Jayantilal Tanna
5. Shri K Shanmugha Sundaram** Considering the Proposal Financial Implication beyond provisions 2. Shri Jaikumar Srinivasan
6. Shri Ravindra Kumar* Having Financial of the Contract 3. Shri K. Shanmugha Sundaram**
Implication Beyond 4. Shri Vidyadhar Vaishampayan
4. Contracts Sub-Committee Award of works or purchase contracts or 1. Shri Gurdeep Singh
Provisions of the Contract 5. Smt. Sangitha Varier
incurring commitments of value 2. Shri Jaikumar Srinivasan
exceeding `500 crore but not exceeding 3. Shri K Shanmugha Sundaram** 11. Sub-Committee of the For giving in-principle approval for new 1. Shri Vidyadhar Vaishampayan
`1000 crore, Consultancy assignments 4. Shri Piyush Singh Board of Directors for business initiatives/ Pilot Projects etc. 2. Shri Jitendra Jayantilal Tanna
including foreign consultancy 5. Shri Jitendra Jayantilal Tanna Business Development
assignments exceeding `10 crore each 6. Smt. Sangitha Varier 12. Standing committee of To monitor compliance with rules and 1. Shri Dillip Kumar Patel#
and Appointment of Sponsor/ Agents for the Board regarding regulations issued by the Govt. of India 2. Shri Shivam Srivastava***
Overseas Consultancy Assignments wholesome compliance from time to time 3. Shri Piyush Singh
involving sponsorship/ agency with rules and regulations
commission exceeding `10 crore each. of Govt. of India
5. Committee for Allotment To approve allotment, issue of 1. Shri Dillip Kumar Patel# * Appointed as Director on 26.02.2024 ** Appointed as Director on 01.12.2023 *** Appointed as Director on 30.04.2023
and Post-Allotment Certificate(s)/Letter of allotment(s), 2. Shri Shivam Srivastava***/ # Ceased to be director on 30.04.2024
Activities of NTPC’s transfer, transmission, re-materialisation, Shri K. Shanmugha Sundaram**
Securities issue of duplicate certificate(s), 3. Shri Ravindra Kumar*/ 3.7. Remuneration of Directors Sitting fee of `40,000/- is payable to Independent Directors
consolidation/ split of NTPC’s domestic Shri Jaikumar Srinivasan The remuneration of Functional Directors and employees of for attending each meeting of the Board and `30,000/- for
and foreign Securities. the Company is fixed as per extant guidelines issued by DPE, attending each meeting of the Committee.
6. Committee for Vigilance To examine all the petitions which are 1. Shri Piyush Singh from time to time. The Part time Non- official Independent No stock option was given to any Director during the financial
Matters submitted before the Board as appellate/ 2. Shri Dillip Kumar Patel# Directors are paid sitting fees for attending Board and year 2023-24.
reviewing authority in terms of CDA rules. 3. Shri Vidyadhar Vaishampayan Committee meetings. As per the norms of Government of Details of remuneration of Functional Directors for the
It also reviews other major complaints as 4. Smt. Sangitha Varier India, the Government Nominee Directors are not entitled financial year 2023-24 are given below:-
referred to it from time to time other to get any remuneration/sitting fee from the Company.
than complaints registered under whistle
blower mechanism under purview of
Chief Vigilance Officer.
7. Exchange Risk To review the foreign currency loan 1. Shri Jaikumar Srinivasan
Management Committee portfolio, hedged and un-hedged 2. Shri Shivam Srivastava***
exposures and effectiveness of hedging 3. Shri Vivek Gupta
strategy, approve amendments in
Exchange Risk Management Policy, new
derivative instruments, etc.
218 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 219
(In `) 7. General Body Meetings
S. No. Name of CMD & Directors Designation Salary Benefits Performance Total Annual General Meetings
Linked Incentives
Date, time and location where the last three Annual General Meetings along with details of Special Resolutions passed are as
1 Shri Gurdeep Singh Chairman & 78,18,840 36,62,405 44,27,490 1,59,08,735
under:
Managing Director
Date 28th September, 2021 30th August, 2022 30th August, 2023
2 Shri Dillip Kumar Patel1 Director (HR) 52,29,546 28,24,497 28,83,120 1,09,37,163
Time 10:30 A.M. 10:30 A.M. 10:30 A.M.
3 Shri Ramesh Babu V2 Director (Operation) 44,62,702 98,10,785 29,62,430 1,72,35,917
Venue NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex, NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex, NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex,
4 Shri Ujjwal Kanti Director (Projects) 40,42,352 82,17,624 29,34,520 1,51,94,496
Lodi Road, New Delhi 110003 Lodi Road, New Delhi 110003 Lodi Road, New Delhi 110003
Bhattacharya3
through Video Conferencing/ through Video Conferencing/ through Video Conferencing/
5 Shri Jaikumar Srinivasan Director (Finance) 40,37,737 19,67,849 15,89,364 75,94,950 Other Audio Visual Means Other Audio Visual Means Other Audio Visual Means
6 Shri Shivam Srivastava4 Director (Fuel) 45,39,405 16,22,922 20,97,922 82,60,249 Special i) To increase borrowing i) To appoint Shri Vivek Gupta i) To raise funds up to `12,000
7 Shri K. Shanmugha Director (Projects) 17,74,176 5,34,345 - 23,08,521 Resolution powers of the Company as an Independent Director Crore through issue of Bonds/
Sundaram5 from `2,00,000 Crore to of the Company Debentures on Private
8 Shri Ravindra Kumar6 Director (Operations) 4,89,051 1,17,981 - 6,07,032
`2,25,000 Crore.
ii) To appoint Shri Jitendra
Placement basis.
ii) Authorization to Board to Jayantilal Tanna as an
1. Ceased to be Director w.e.f. 30.04.2024 2. Ceased to be Director w.e.f. 31.01.2024 3. Ceased to be Director w.e.f. 30.11.2023
mortgage or create charge Independent Director
4. Appointed on 30.04.2023 5. Appointed on 01.12.2023 6. Appointed on 26.02.2024
over the movable and
Note:- iii) To appoint Shri Vidyadhar
immovable properties of
1. Performance linked incentives paid are based on the Performance Related Pay scheme of the Company, framed in line Vaishampayan as an
the Company in favour of
with DPE. Independent Director
lenders in connection with
2. Besides above, Functional Directors are also entitled for medical benefit as per the applicable rules of the company. iv) To appoint Smt. Sangitha
the borrowings of the
3. Benefits include the retirement benefits paid to the superannuated Directors. Varier as a Woman
Company.
Independent Director
Details of payments towards sitting fees, for attending Board/Committee meetings, to Independent Directors during the
iii) Authorization to Board to
financial year 2023-24 are given below: v) Authorization to Board to
raise funds upto `18,000
raise funds up to `12,000
(In `) Crore through issue of
Crore through issue of Bonds
Bonds/Debentures on
Sl No. Members Designation Sitting Fees (Excluding GST) /Debentures on Private
Private Placement basis.
1 Shri Vivek Gupta Independent Director 19,10,000 Placement basis
2 Shri Jitendra Jayantilal Tanna Independent Director 18,50,000
47th Annual General Meeting of the Company was held on 8. Disclosures
3 Smt Sangitha Varier Independent Director 16,60,000 30th August, 2023 through Video Conferencing/Other Audio
(a) Related Party Transaction: -
Visual Means in line with the Ministry of Corporate Affairs
4 Shri Vidyadhar Vaishampayan Independent Director 17,30,000
(“MCA”) circular dated May 5, 2020 read together with other The Company has formulated a Related Party
circulars issued from time to time. Meeting was attended Transaction (RPT) Policy containing criterion of deciding
by the partner/authorised representative of four statutory Materiality of Related Party Transactions and dealing
5. Material Subsidiary 6. Directors Familiarizations Programme
auditors firms. Meeting was also attended by the Scrutiniser with Related Party Transactions. The details of Related
In accordance with Regulation 16(1)(c) of SEBI (LODR), the Directors are imparted training organised from time to time appointed by the Board for Remote e-voting/ e-voting at AGM Party Transactions are given in form AOC-2 forming part
Company has a Policy for determining ‘Material Subsidiaries’ by the Company and other agencies/ institutions with a view and Secretarial Auditor of the Company. of Board’s Report.
which is available at the weblink: to augment leadership qualities, knowledge and skills. The
In accordance with Regulation 44 of the SEBI (LODR) and During the FY 2023-24, NTPC has entered into Related
https://ntpc.co.in/sites/default/files/inline-files/policy-determining-material.pdf training also enables them to get a better understanding of
Section 108 of Companies Act 2013, remote e-voting facility Party Transactions with its Joint Ventures and
sector as well as the Company. Directors are also briefed from
In the financial year 2023-24, the Company had no ‘Material was provided to the shareholders, in respect of resolutions subsidiaries pertaining to consultancy, contribution to
time to time about changes/developments in Indian as well
Subsidiary’ as defined under Regulation 16(1)(c) of SEBI passed at the AGM held on 30th August, 2023. In addition to Employees’ benefit Trust, transfer of spares equity
as international corporate and economic scenario including
(LODR). above, facility of voting during the AGM was also provided investment and renting of premises etc.
Legislative/ Regulatory changes.
to those shareholders who did not, cast their vote through
(b) The Company has complied with the Guidelines on
At the time of induction, new Directors undergo a remote e-voting through link appearing in their log-in.
Corporate Governance for Central Public Sector
familiarization programme which highlights organisation
Special Resolution passed through Postal Ballot Enterprises issued by DPE, Ministry of Finance,
structure, subsidiaries/ joint ventures, business model of the
Government of India.
company, risk profile of the business etc. No special resolution was passed during last year through
postal ballot. There is no immediate proposal for passing any (c) The Company had received notices for payment of fine
special resolution through Postal Ballot. from the NSE and BSE for non-compliance with the
220 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 221
provisions of Regulation 17 (1) of the SEBI (LODR) due placement of Bonds. As the proposal was subject to There has not been any revision in the credit rating of h. Ms. Ritu Arora was appointed as Company
to insufficient numbers of Independent Director in approval of Shareholders in AGM held on 24th above-mentioned international credit instruments. Secretary & Compliance officer w.e.f. 29.01.2024.
respect of Q1, Q2, Q3 and Q4 of 2020-21, 2021-22, 2022- September 2020, it was informed to the stock exchanges Further, Fitch Ratings has upgraded the outlook from
i. Changes in Executive Directors i.e. one level below
23 and 2023-24. During Q3 of 2023-24, fine was imposed along with the notice of the AGM. Request for waiver “Negative” to “Stable”.
functional directors are as under:
for non-compliance with provisions of Regulation 17(1) of penalty had been made to the Stock Exchanges.
(g) Disclosure under the Sexual Harassment of Women at
as 50% of the Board of Directors was not comprise of Appointed during the Year:
NSE had imposed penalty of `70,000/- under Para.8.4 Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act
Non-Executive Directors. In respect of Q3 of 2021-22 of Chapter XVII of SEBI Operational Circular for delay in 2013 are given in the Directors’ Report of the Company Names Names
fines have also been imposed under Regulation 17 (2A),
certificate of confirming fulfilment of payment for the FY 2023-24. Ms. Sangeeta Kaushik Shri Umakant Haribhau
Regulation 18 (1), Regulation 19 (1), Regulation 20(2)
obligation. However, penalty was waived vide letter Gokhe
and Regulation 21(2) for not having sufficient numbers (h) Dis-qualification of Directors:
dated 19th June 2023.
of Independent Directors in the quorum for Board and Shri Virendra Malik Shri Prasenjit Pal
M/s A. Kaushal & Associates, Company Secretaries
insufficient numbers of the Independent Directors in Except mentioned above, there were no penalties or
certified that none of the Directors on the Board of the Shri Harjit Singh Shri Subhra Kumar Ghosh
Audit Committee, Nomination & Remuneration strictures imposed on the Company by any statutory
Company have been debarred or disqualified from being
Committee, Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee and authorities for non-compliance on any matter related Shri C Kumar Shri R Sarangapani
appointed or continuing as Directors of the Companies
Risk Management Committee. As powers of to Indian capital markets, during the last three years.
by the SEBI/Ministry of Corporate Affairs/ any such Shri Ratnesh Shri Ashish Kundu
appointment of independent directors are vested with
(d) The Company has complied with corporate governance authority as on 31st March, 2024. Copy of certificate is
Ms. Shoba Pattabhiraman Shri Kedar Ranjan Pandu
the Government of India and compliance was not within
requirements specified in Regulations 17 to 27 and enclosed as Annexure-2.
the powers of the Board of Directors, request was made clauses (b) to (i) of sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 46 Shri Santosh Kumar Takhele Shri Baru Rama Rao
(i) During the year 2023-24, there was no Preferential
to the Stock Exchanges for waiver of fine. BSE has waived
of SEBI (LODR), except to the extent specifically Allotment / Qualified Institutional Placement of Shares Shri Vijay Prakash Shri S Govindarajan
fines imposed for the Q2 and Q3 of 2018-19 and Q2 of
mentioned in this report and in the Secretarial Audit
2020-21. which is required to be reported under Regulation Shri Shaswattam Shri Animesh Jain
Report. The discretionary requirements as specified in
32(7A) of the SEBI (LODR).
The Company had received notices for payment of fine Part E of Schedule II adopted by the Company are at Shri Masood Akhtar Ansari Shri Asesh Kumar
from the NSE and BSE for non-compliance with the Annexure-1 of the Report. (j) During the year 2023-24, there was no instance where Chattopadhyay
the recommendation of the Committee of the Board
provision of Regulation 29 of the SEBI LODR in respect
(e) No Presidential Directive were issued during the Shri Manohar Krishna Shri Apelagunta Kama
was not accepted by the Board, which was mandatorily
of prior intimation of Board meeting for approval for
financial year 2023-24 and during last three years Asthana Manohar
required.
raising funds up to `15,000 Crore though private
preceding the financial year 2023-24
Shri Bishnu Charan Polai Shri Ravindra Kumar
(k) During the year 2023-24, total fee of `6.41 Crore
(including fee for other services) was paid to the Shri Gampa Brahmaji Rao Shri Karunakar Das
Statutory Auditors by the Company. Further, the
(f) Credit Ratings: Shri Jasbir Singh Ahlawat Shri Rajiv Gupta
statutory auditors of the company have not carried out
Domestic Credit Instruments: any work of subsidiary companies. Shri Vijay Goel Shri Kamlesh Soni
Instruments CRISIL ICRA CARE India Ratings (l) During the FY 2023-24, there were following changes Shri E Satya Phani Kumar Shri Anil Kumar
in the Whole time Directors and Senior Management
Long Term Loans CRISIL AAA/Stable ICRA AAA/Stable CARE AAA/Stable IND AAA/Stable Shri Dilip Kumar Dubey
Personnel
Domestic Bonds CRISIL AAA/Stable ICRA AAA/Stable CARE AAA/Stable IND AAA/Stable
a. Shri Shivam Srivastava was appointed as Director Retirements/Superannuation during the Year:
Commercial Papers CRISIL A1+ ICRA A1+ CARE A1+ IND A1+ (Fuel) w.e.f. 30.04.2023 Names Names
Bank Guarantees CRISIL A1+ ICRA A1+ CARE A1+ IND AAA/Stable/IND A1+ b. Shri Ujjwal Kanti Bhattacharya ceased to be Shri Achal Kumar Arora Shri Debasish Chattopadhyay
Director (Projects) w.e.f. 30.11.2023.
Letter of Credit CRISIL A1+ ICRA A1+ CARE A1+ IND AAA/Stable/IND A1+ Shri Ajay Kumar Chhabra Shri Karunakar Das
c. Shri K Shanmugha Sundaram was appointed as
Cash credit/ STWCL/ CRISIL AAA/Stable ICRA AAA/Stable CARE AAA/Stable IND AAA/Stable/IND A1+ Shri Sital Kumar Shri Jasbir Singh Ahlawat
Director (Projects) w.e.f. 01.12.2023
WCDL/Bill Discounting
Shri Naresh Anand Shri Praveen Saxena
d. Shri Ashish Upadhyaya ceased to be Govt.
There has not been any revision in credit rating of above-mentioned domestic credit instruments during the relevant
Nominee Director w.e.f. 31.12.2023 Shri Sanjay Kumar Singh Shri Sunil Kumar
financial year.
e. Shri Ramesh Babu V., ceased to be Director Shri Ratnesh Shri Asit Dutta
International Credit Instruments:
(Operations) w.e.f. 31.01.2024.
Shri Ashim Kumar Goswami Shri Bishnu Charan Polai
Instruments S&P Moody’s Fitch
f. Shri Ravindra Kumar was appointed as Director
Shri Adesh Shri DSGSS Babji
Company Rating/Outlook BBB-/Stable Baa3/Stable BBB-/Stable (Operations) w.e.f. 26.02.2024
Shri Basuraj Goswami Shri Ajit Kumar Bishoi
g. Shri Arun Kumar ceased to be Company Secretary
and Compliance Officer w.e.f. 29.01.2024. Shri Partha Mazumder Shri Ravi Prakash
Shri Subrata Mandal Shri Velivala Sudharshanbabu
222 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 223
Names Names time. Annual analysts and investors meet is held normally Particulars Website links
during the month of August where Board of the Company
Shri Suvash Chandra Naik Shri Baru Rama Rao interacts with the investing community. Financial results are Policy for determining Material Subsidiaries https://ntpc.co.in/sites/default/files/inline-files/policy-determining-material.pdf
Shri Atanu Dutta Shri Manish Kumar Srivastava discussed by way of conference calls regularly after approval Training Policy for Directors https://ntpc.co.in/sites/default/files/inline-files/training-policy-directors-ntpc.pdf
of financial results of each quarter.
Shri Muthyala Venkat Shri Sandeep Aggarwal Familiarisation Programme for https://ntpc.co.in/corporate-governance/familiarisation-program-directors
Ramana Reddy In compliance with the provisions of Regulation 44(6) of the Independent Directors
SEBI (LODR), the Company provides live webcast of
Shri Mohit Bhargava Shri Abhay Kumar Samaiyar Shareholders’ Information
proceedings of AGM on the website of the Company.
Shri Ashwini Kumar Tripathy Shri Rajesh Kumar Kanojia Composition of Board of Directors and https://ntpc.co.in/board-directors
Information, latest updates and announcements regarding
Profile of Directors
Shri Ashish Kundu the Company can be accessed at company’s website:
www.ntpc.co.in including the following:- Composition of various Committees of the https://ntpc.co.in/corporate-governance/Committees-of-the-Board
9. CEO/CFO Certification Board and their terms of reference
• Quarterly/ Annual Financial Results
As required under Regulation 17(8) of SEBI (LODR), the Details of unpaid dividend and details of https://ntpc.co.in/iepf-details
• Quarterly Shareholding Pattern
certificate duly signed by Chairman & Managing Director and shares transferred to IEPF
Director (Finance) was placed before the Board of Directors • Quarterly Corporate Governance Report
Investor Contacts https://ntpc.co.in/investor-updates/investors-contact
at the meeting held on 24th May 2024 and the same is annexed
• Transcripts of conferences with analysts
to the Corporate Governance Report. The Company’s official news releases, other press coverage, presentations made to institutional investors or to the analysts
• Corporate Disclosures made from time to time to the
are also hosted on the Website.
10. Means of Communication Stock Exchanges
During 2023-24, Quarterly Results have been published as per details given below
The Company communicates with its shareholders through The Company’s official news releases, other press coverage,
its Annual Report, General Meetings and disclosures through presentations made to institutional investors or to the Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
Stock Exchanges & its own Website. The Company also analysts are also hosted on the Website. Published on 30.07.2023 & Published on 30.10.2023 & Published on 30.01.2024 & Published on 25.05.2024
communicates with its institutional shareholders through a In addition to this, web links of various matters referred in 31.07.2023 31.10.2023 31.01.2024
combination of analysts briefing and individual discussions this report are as under: Economic Times (English), Economic Times (English) Jansatta (Hindi), Economic Times (English)
and also participation in investor conferences from time to
Mint (English), Hindustan Financial Express (English) Mint (English), Mint (English)
(Hindi). Jansatta (Hindi) Financial Express (English), Hindustan (Hindi)
Particulars Website links
Economic Times (English).
Reports
Quarterly, Half-yearly and Annual https://ntpc.co.in/investors/financial-results
Financial Results 11. Code of Conduct the Company. This code is applicable to all the Board
Members including Government Nominee(s) & the
Presentation to investors and analysts https://ntpc.co.in/sites/default/files/inline-files/NTPC_IP_28.07.2024.pdf The Company has in place Code of Conduct for Directors and
Independent Director(s) and the Senior Management
Senior Management Personnel (Code) with a view to enhance
Annual Report https://ntpc.co.in/investors/annual-reports Personnel of the Company.
ethical and transparent process in managing the affairs of
Sustainability Reports https://ntpc.co.in/index.php/sustainability/reports-and-publications
Policies Declaration as required under Regulation 34 (3) Schedule V of the SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015
Code of Conduct https://ntpc.co.in/sites/default/files/inline-files/Code-of-Conduct-for-Board-Members-and-Senior-Management-Personnel.pdf The members of the Board and Senior Management Personnel have affirmed compliance of the Code of Conduct for Board
Members & Senior Management Personnel for the financial year ended on 31st March, 2024.
Dividend Distribution Policy https://ntpc.co.in/sites/default/files/inline-files/DividendDistributionPolicyofNTPCLimited.pdf
Whistle Blower Policy https://ntpc.co.in/sites/default/files/inline-files/WhistleBlowerPolicy.pdf Sd/-
Policy on Determination and Disclosure https://ntpc.co.in/sites/default/files/inline-files/policy-determining-material.pdf New Delhi (Gurdeep Singh)
of Materiality of Events and Information 27 July 2024 Chairman & Managing Director
Policy for preservation of Documents https://ntpc.co.in/sites/default/files/inline-files/Document%20Preservation%20Policy.pdf
Policy on Materiality of Related Party https://ntpc.co.in/sites/default/files/inline-files/Revised%20policy%20on%20RPT.pdf
Transactions and on dealing with
Related Party Transactions
224 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 225
12. Code of Internal Procedures & Procedures for direct access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee, if iii) Dividend History
Prevention of Insider Trading required. DETAILS OF DIVIDENDS PAID
Pursuant to Regulation 9(1) of SEBI (Prohibition of Insider No personnel of the Company had been denied access to the Year Total Paid Up Dividend Total Date of BOD in Date of Date of AGM Date of
Trading) Regulations, 2015 as amended by the SEBI Chairman of audit committee. Capital Paid/ Dividend which Interim Payment in which Final Payment
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, ( ````` in cr) Share (`````) Paid Dividend was of Interim Dividend was of Final
2018, the Board has laid down Internal Code of Conduct for 14. Directors and Officers Insurance (````` in cr) declared Dividend Declared Dividend
Prevention of Insider Trading in dealing with Securities of As per approval accorded by the Board of Directors in its 263rd 2017-18 8245.46 5.12 4221.68 31.01.2018 15.02.2018 20.09.2018 10.10.2018
NTPC Limited (Insider Trading Code). meeting, NTPC is taking Directors and Officers insurance 2018-19 9894.56# 6.08 5425.52 30.01.2019 14.02.2019 21.08.2019 03.09.2019
To strengthen the internal controls for monitoring & enforcing Policy (D&O Policy) every year. Present D&O Policy is for `100
2019-20 9894.56 3.15 3116.79 19.03.2020 31.03.2020 24.09.2020 03.10.2020
compliance with the Insider Trading Code, an IT enabled Crore and it also covers Independent Directors. The Board
system has been installed with the objective to maintain had delegated power to decide extent of coverage, settle 2020-21 9696.67$ 6.15 5963.45 04.02.2021 26.02.2021 28.09.2021 08.10.2021
structural digital database for UPSI and also to aim at mapping terms and conditions etc. to the Chairman & Managing 2021-22 9696.67 7.00 6787.67 29.01.2022 21.02.2022 30.08.2022 12.09.2022
of designated employees, monitor compliance with the Director or Director (Finance). 2022-23 9696.67 7.25 7030.08 28.01.2023 24.02.2023 30.08.2023 12.09.2023
provisions of the Insider Trading Code by the designated
15. Secretarial Audit 2023-24 9696.67 2.25* 4363.50 28.10.2023 23.11.2023 - -
employees, dissemination of information etc.
2.25* 29.01.2024 22.02.2024
Secretarial Audit Report, given by a Company Secretary in
13. Whistle Blower Policy # Paid up share capital was increased from ` 8245.46 Crore to ` 9894.56 Crore due to Bonus Issue
Practice for the FY 2023-24 is enclosed with the Directors’
$ Paid up share capital was reduced subsequent to Buyback of shares
The Company has a Board approved ‘Whistle Blower Policy’ Report.
* Interim Dividend for FY 2023-24
for directors and employees to report to the management,
16. Security holders Information
concerns about unethical behaviour, actual or suspected
fraud or violation of the company’s code of conduct or ethics i) Annual General Meeting
policy. It also provides adequate safeguard against
For details, please refer to the Notice of this AGM.
victimization of employees, who avail the mechanism and
Financial Calendar for FY 2024-25
Particulars Date
Accounting Period 1st April 2024 to 31st March 2025
Unaudited Financial Results for the first three quarters Announcement within stipulated period under SEBI (LODR)
Fourth Quarter Results Announcement within stipulated period under SEBI (LODR)
AGM (Next year) August 2025 (Tentative)
iv) Listing On Stock Exchange
ii) Payment of Dividend and Record Date
NTPC equity shares are listed on the following Stock Exchanges:
The Board of Directors of the Company has recommended payment of final Dividend of `3.25 per share (32.50%) on the
National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE) BSE Limited (BSE)
paid-up share capital, for the financial year ended 31st March 2024 in addition to the Interim Dividend of `4.5 per share (45%)
on the paid-up share capital. The date of payment/dispatch of interim dividend were November 23, 2023 and February 22, • Address: Exchange Plaza, Plot No. C/1, • Address: Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers,
2024. G Block, Bandra (E), Mumbai - 400051 Dalal Street, Mumbai - 400001
• Scrip Code of NTPC: NTPC EQ • Scrip Code of NTPC: 532555
Stock Code : ISIN – INE733E01010
Details of Listing of Domestic Bonds
Listed on National Stock
Listed on BSE Limited (BSE) Listed on NSE & BSE
Exchange of India (NSE)
• Bond Series: • Bond Series: • Bond Series:
• 32, 34 to 36, 38 to 46, 53, • 73, 75, 77, 79 & 81 • 50, 51, 54 to 57, 60 to 64, 67, 69,
The Company has fixed Wednesday, 7th August, 2024 as record date for payment of final dividend. The final dividend on
74, 76, 78 & 80 71 & 72
equity shares, if declared at the Annual General Meeting, will be paid on Wednesday, 11th September, 2024 to the Members
The Annual Listing Fee for FY 2024-25 has been paid to NSE and BSE.
whose names appear on the Company’s Register of Members on record date.
226 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 227
v) Details of Listing of Bonds Outstanding as at 31.03.2024 Issued Under the MTN Programme: vii) Comparison of performance of Company’s Share Price with NSE NIFTY 50 and NSE ENERGY in FY 2023-24
Sr. Series ISIN No. Name of Bond Listed on Stock Exchanges
No.
1 Euro Bond-IV XS1143390679 USD 500 million 4.375% Notes due 2024 SGX, India INX & NSE IFSC
2 Euro Bond-V XS1372846003 USD 500 million 4.25% Notes due 2026 SGX, India INX & NSE IFSC
3 Euro Bond-VII XS1551677260 EUR 500 million 2.75% Notes due 2027 SGX, FSE, India INX & NSE IFSC
4 Euro Bond-IX XS1792122266 USD 400 million 4.50% Notes due 2028 SGX, LSE, India INX & NSE IFSC
5 Euro Bond-X XS1967614469 USD 450 million 3.75% Notes due 2024 SGX, India INX & NSE IFSC
SGX Singapore Exchange Ltd.,SGX Centre Office, 2 Shenton Way, #02-02, SGX Centre 1, Singapore 068804
India INX INDIA INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE (IFSC) LTD
1st Floor, Unit No. 101, The Signature, Building no. 13B, Road 1C, Zone 1, GIFT SEZ, GIFT City,
Gandhinagar, Gujarat – 382355
NSE IFSC NSE IFSC Limited
Unit No. 1201, Brigade International Financial Centre, 12th floor, Block-14, Road 1C, Zone -1, GIFT
SEZ, Gandhinagar, Gujarat – 382355
LSE London Stock Exchange viii)Comparison of performance of Company’s Share Price with BSE Sensex and BSE Power in FY 2023-24
10 Paternoster Square, London EC4M 7LS, United Kingdom
FSE Deutsche Börse AG, 60485 Frankfurt/Main
Listing fee to the above exchanges in respect of the securities was paid (wherever applicable) at the time of the listing of
the securities.
vi) Market Price Data
Month NTPC on BSE NTPC on NSE INDEX
High Low Close Volume High Low Close Volume BSE NSE
Price Price Price (No. in Price Price Price (No. in SENSEX NIFTY 50
(in `````) (in `````) (in `````) Lakhs) (in `````) (in `````) (in `````) Lakhs)
Apr’23 179.75 166.65 171.55 131.31 179.75 166.80 172.00 1,937.90 61,112.44 18065.00
May’23 179.95 171.95 173.95 102.47 180.00 171.95 173.85 2,148.51 62,622.24 18534.40
Jun’23 191.65 171.90 189.15 123.37 191.65 171.85 189.15 2,344.49 64,718.56 19189.05
Jul’23 218.90 184.75 218.45 202.18 218.95 184.75 218.35 3,187.19 66,527.67 19753.80
Aug’23 226.60 211.85 219.95 185.70 226.65 211.80 220.30 3,336.29 64,831.41 19253.80
Sep’23 251.50 216.55 245.65 178.60 251.50 216.15 245.55 3577.67 65,828.41 19638.30
ix) Registrar and Transfer Agent Details:
Oct’23 247.15 227.75 235.85 99.22 247.20 227.75 235.80 2,521.63 63,874.93 19079.60 For Equity Shares & Bonds (For Series: 32 to Tax Free Bonds (Series 50) and Bonus Debentures
49, 51 to 53, 55, 57 to 81) (Series 54) and Tax Free Bonds 2015 (Series 56)
Nov’23 261.75 232.20 261.30 144.50 261.65 232.10 261.30 1,955.71 66,988.44 20133.15
Beetal Financial & Computer Services Pvt. Ltd. KFin Technologies Limited,
Dec’23 315.65 261.85 311.15 166.62 315.50 261.75 311.15 3,802.73 72,240.26 21731.40 99, Madangir, Near Dada Harsukh Das Mandir, Selenium Tower, B, Plot No. 31 & 32,
New Delhi-110062. Gachibowli Financial District, Nanakramguda,
Jan’24 325.70 296.55 317.55 195.39 325.75 296.55 317.50 4,125.84 71,752.11 21725.70
Serilingampally, Hyderabad-500008
Feb’24 347.85 314.55 335.45 139.45 348.05 314.50 335.60 3,297.50 72,500.30 21982.80 Phone No: 011-29961281, 011-29961282 Toll Free/ Phone Number: 1800 309 4001
Fax: 011-29961284 WhatsApp Number: (91) 910 009 4099;
Mar’24 360.35 305.80 335.95 195.56 359.95 305.75 335.80 3,495.51 73,651.35 22326.90 Email: ntpc@beetalfiancial.com Fax: (91 40) 2343 1551
Email: einward.ris@kfintech.com
228 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 229
x) Share Transfer System The Company has uploaded the details of shareholders/ xiv) Debenture Trustees for Various Series
depositors of the Company containing information like
In terms of Regulation 40(1) of SEBI LODR, as amended, For Series: 44 to 50 (TFB-2013), 53 to 55, 57 to 66 For Series: 27 to 43, 51 to 52, 56 (TFB-2015), 70 to 78
name, address, amount due to be transferred to IEPF
w.e.f. April 1, 2019 securities can be transferred only in
Vistra ITCL (India) Ltd. (Formerly known as IL&FS IDBI Trusteeship Services Limited
and due date of transfer of amount to IEPF on its
dematerialized form, except in case of request received
Trust Company Limited) Asian Building, Ground Floor,
website. The Company has been issuing notices in the
for transmission or transposition of securities. Members
The IL&FS Financial Centre, Plot No. C-22, 17, R. Kamani Marg, Ballard Estate,
newspapers from time to time in order to invite
holding shares in physical form are requested to
G-Block, Bandra – Kurla Complex, Mumbai – 400 001
attention of the shareholders/depositors who have not
consider converting their holdings to dematerialized
Bandra (East), Mumbai – 400051 Tel : +91 22 4080 7000
preferred their claims, to submit their claims towards
form. Transfers of equity shares in electronic form are
Tel: (+91 22) 26533908 Fax : +91 22 6631 1776
the unpaid and unclaimed dividend/interest.
affected through the depositories with no involvement
Fax: (+91 22) 26533297 E-mail : itsl@idbitrustee.com
of the Company. xii) Transfer of Shares to IEPF
E-mail: itclcomplianceofficer@ilfsindia.com Website: www.idbitrustee.com
As per SEBI circulars dated January 25, 2022 and In terms of Section 124(6) of the Companies Act, 2013 Website: www.vistraitcl.com
February 24, 2022 request for effecting of issue of and IEPF Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and
duplicate securities certificate, claim from unclaimed Refund) Rules, 2016 as amended from time to time (IEPF For Series 67 to 69 For Series: 79 to 81
suspense account, renewal / exchange of securities Rules), the shares in respect of which the dividend has AXIS TRUSTEE SERVICES LTD. BEACON TRUSTEESHIP LIMITED
certificate, endorsement, subdivision/ splitting of share not been paid or claimed for a consecutive period of Axis House, Bombay Dyeing Mills Compound, 4C & D Siddhivinayak Chambers, Gandhi Nagar,
certificate, consolidation of securities, transmission and seven years or more, is required to be transferred to Pandurang Budhkar Marg, Worli, Mumbai- 400 025 Opp MIG Cricket Club, Bandra (East), Mumbai 400 051
transposition shall be issued in dematerialised mode Investor Education and Protection Fund (IEPF) Authority Email: debenturetrustee@axistrustee.com Toll-Free No. 9555449955
only and no physical share certificate shall be issued. account. Website: www.axistrustee.com Email: contact@beacontrustee.co.in
Form ISR-4 (for physical shareholders) has also made In line with the provisions of Section 124(6) and rules Website: www.beacontrustee.co.in
available on the website of the Company.
made thereunder as well as in accordance with the
SEBI vide its circular dated March 16, 2023 mandated circulars/notifications issued by the MCA from time to xv) Distribution of Shareholding
all listed companies to record PAN, Nomination and time, for the financial year 2023-24, 229890 shares of Shares held by different categories of shareholders and according to the size of holdings as on 31st March 2024 are given
Contact details, Bank A/c details and specimen signature 2723 shareholders were transferred to the DEMAT below:
for their corresponding folio numbers of holders of Account of the IEPF Authority opened with CDSL. Details
A. On Basis of Size
physical securities. The Company has completed the of the shareholders whose shares were transferred to
Category Cases % Shares %
process of sending letters through its RTA to the the IEPF Account is available on the website at the
Members holding shares in physical form in relation to following link: https://www.ntpc.co.in/iepf-details/iepf-account. 1-5000 1303121 93.516 94109528 0.97
above referred SEBI Circular. Members holding shares Members may check their details on the aforesaid web-
5001-10000 50496 3.624 36155889 0.37
in electronic form are requested to submit their details link.
to their Depository Participant(s). 10001-20000 23055 1.654 32082819 0.33
xiii) Claim from IEPF Account
xi) Transfer of Unclaimed Amount of Dividend to 20001-30000 6664 0.478 16598645 0.17
Any person, whose shares, unclaimed dividend, matured
Investor Education & Protection Fund (IEPF) deposits, matured debentures, application money due 30001-40000 2738 0.196 9608249 0.10
In accordance with Section 125 of the Companies Act, for refund, or interest thereon, sale proceeds of 40001-50000 1760 0.126 8094776 0.08
2013 read with Regulation 61A of Securities and fractional share, redemption proceeds of preference
50001-100000 2924 0.210 20374948 0.21
Exchange Board of India (LODR) (Fifth Amendment) shares etc. has been transferred to the IEPF , may claim
Regulations, 2021, during the financial year 2023-24, the shares under provision to sub-section (6) of section 100001-above 2722 0.195 9479641280 97.76
an amount of `66.08 lakh pertaining to unclaimed 124 or apply for refund under clause (a) of sub-section
Total 1393480 100 9696666134 100.00
interim dividend (2015-16), `88.56 lakh pertaining to (3) of section 125 or under proviso to sub-section (3) of
unclaimed final dividend (2015-16), `24.86 lakh section 125, as the case may be, to the Authority by B. On Basis of Ownership
pertaining to first unclaimed interest on Tax Free Bonds making an online application in Form IEPF-5. Detailed
Category As on 31.03.2023 As on 31.03.2024
2015, `13.48 lakh pertaining to third unclaimed interest procedure regarding claiming shares from IEPF account
No. of Total Shares % No. of Total Shares % Change
on Tax Free Bonds 2013 and `83.62 lakh pertaining to is available on NTPC website at the following link:
Shareholders Shareholders (in %)
first unclaimed interest on Bonus Debentures 2015 have https://ntpc.co.in/iepf-account/procedure-claiming-dividend-shares-iepf-authority.
been transferred to Investor Education and Protection Govt. of India 1 4955346251 51.10 1 4955346251 51.10 0.00
Fund.
Indian Financial Institutions/Banks 16 21189861 0.22 11 1294614 0.01 -0.21
Mutual Funds 36 1931200011 19.92 39 1740829563 17.95 -1.97
Foreign Portfolio Investors/FIIs 639 1512391505 15.60 738 1731587696 17.86 2.26
Resident Individuals 957296 200516135 2.06 1359000 242656520 2.50 0.44
Body Corporates 2270 39886160 0.41 3353 53603048 0.55 0.14
230 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 231
Category As on 31.03.2023 As on 31.03.2024 xvii)Depository Details
No. of Total Shares % No. of Total Shares % Change National Securities Depository Ltd Central Depository Services (India) Limited
Shareholders Shareholders (in %)
• Trade World, 4th Floor Kamala Mills Compound • Marathon Futurex
Insurance Companies 35 862598414 8.90 35 727510040 7.50 -1.40 Senapathi Bapat Marg, Lower Parel, A-Wing, 25th floor, NM Joshi Marg,
Mumbai-400 013 Lower Parel, Mumbai 400013
Trusts 70 526362 0.01 75 503495 0.01 0.00
HUF 10815 6436047 0.07 13168 7035714 0.07 0.00
xviii)Demat Suspense Account
Others 12428 166575388 1.71 43486 235563479 2.45 0.74
Details of shares/ debentures in the suspense accounts opened and maintained after Initial Public Offering, Further Public
Total 983606 9696666134 100 1393480 9696666134 100 0.00 Offering of Equity Shares of NTPC and Bonus Debentures as on 31st March, 2024 is furnished below:
Demat Suspense Account Type Opening Balance as on Requests disposed of Closing Balance as on
A. Major Shareholders
01.04.2023 during FY 2023-24 31.03.2024
Name of the Shareholder No. of Shares % Category
Cases Shares Cases Shares Cases Shares/
President of India 4955346251 51.1 Indian Promoter Debentures
Life Insurance Corporation of India 441227974 4.55 Insurance Co. IPO Unclaimed Shares1 4 1050 0 0 4 1050
ICICI Prudential Equity & Debt Fund 400997305 4.14 Mutual Fund IPO- Unclaimed Bonus Debentures1 176 31197 0 0 176 31197
CPSE Exchange Traded Scheme (CPSE ETF) 347546498 3.58 Mutual Fund FPO- Unclaimed Shares2 6 1139 0 0 6 1139
HDFC Trustee Company Ltd. A/C HDFC Balanced FPO-Unclaimed Bonus Debentures2 23 2828 0 0 23 2828
Advantage Fund 212433941 2.19 Mutual Fund
Bonus Debentures-Unclaimed Debentures3 29 5474 0 0 29 5474
SBI-ETF Nifty 50 166219034 1.71 Mutual Fund
Unclaimed Securities Suspense Account4 1 1000 0 0 1 1000
NPS Trust- A/c Uti Retirement Solutions Pension
1. Account opened and maintained after IPO 2. Account opened and maintained after FPO
Fund Scheme - State Govt 136412893 1.41 Pension Fund 3. Account opened and maintained after Issue of Bonus Debentures 4. Opened as per SEBI Circular dated 25.01. 2022.
Government Of Singapore 165239754 1.70 FPI-I
xix) Outstanding GDRs/ ADRs/ Warrants or any is not required to be given. For a detailed discussion on
Convertible instruments, conversion date and likely foreign exchange risk and hedging activities, please refer to
impact on equity Directors’ Report and Management Discussion and Analysis
xvi) Dematerialisation of Shares & Liquidity and Debentures) Rules, 2014, the Company has prescribed a
Report.
fee of `50/- per share/ bond certificate on issue of certificates No GDRs/ ADRs/Warrants or any Convertible instruments has
The shares of the Company are in compulsory dematerialised
on splitting/ consolidation/ rematerialisation/ duplicate on been issued by the Company. xxi) Loans and advances in the nature of loans to firms/
segment and are admitted with both the Depositories i.e.
loss of shares/ bonds. companies
National Securities Depository Ltd. (NSDL) and Central xx) Commodity price risk or foreign exchange risk and
Depository Services (India) Limited (CDSL). Secretarial Audit Report for Reconciliation of the Share Capital hedging activities During the financial year 2023-24, no loan or advances in the
of the Company obtained from Practising Company Secretary nature of loan has been given to firms/companies in which
In pursuance of Article 7 of the Articles of Association of the The Company does not deal in commodities and hence the
has been submitted to Stock Exchanges within stipulated directors are interested except loan provided to the subsidiary
Company and as per Rule 6 of the Companies (Share Capital disclosure pursuant to SEBI Circular dated November 15, 2018
time. and joint venture companies.
Details of shareholding in dematerialized and physical mode as on 31st March, 2024 are as under: xxii) Number of Shares held by the Directors
Holding Type No. of Shares Share % Name of Directors No. of shares
(as on 31.03.2024)
Demat
Shri Gurdeep Singh 5828
CDSL 400061131 4.126
Shri Jaikumar Srinivasan 5
NSDL 9296531406 95.873
Shri Dillip Kumar Patel* NIL
Physical 73597 0.001
Shri Shivam Srivastava 270
TOTAL 9696666134 100
Shri K. Shanmugha Sundaram NIL
Shri Ravindra Kumar 5266
Shri Piyush Singh NIL
232 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 233
Name of Directors No. of shares Southern Region Western Region -I
(as on 31.03.2024 i) Rajiv Gandhi Combined Cycle Power Project – Distt. i) 20 MW Jhanor Gandhar Solar Power Project- Distt.
Ms. Sangitha Varier NIL Alappuzha, Kerala Bharuch, Gujarat
Shri Vivek Gupta NIL Western Region -I ii) 56 MW Kawas Solar Power Project- Distt. Surat, Gujarat
Shri Jitendra Jayantilal Tanna NIL i) Jhanor Gandhar Gas Power Project- Distt. Bharuch, iii) 90 MW Anta Solar Power Project – Distt. Baran,
Gujarat Rajasthan
Shri Vidyadhar Vaishampayan NIL
ii) Kawas Gas Power Project- Distt. Surat, Gujarat iv) 23 MW Solapur Solar Power Project – Distt. Solapur,
*Ceased to be Director w.e.f. 30.04.2024
Maharashtra
iii) Anta Gas Power Project – Distt. Baran, Rajasthan
xxiii)Location of NTPC Plants vi) National Capital Power Station-Gautam Budh Nagar, NTPC SUBSIDARIES
SOLAR PROJECTS
Uttar Pradesh
THERMAL PROJECTS Thermal Power Projects
Eastern Region - II
Southern Region
Eastern Region I 1. Bhartiya Rail Bijlee Co. Ltd. : Nabinagar Thermal Power
i) 10MW Talcher Kaniha Solar Power Station, Distt. Angul,
i) Ramagundam Super Thermal Power Station- Distt. Project, Distt. Aurangabad, Nabinagar, Bihar (in JV with
i) Barh Super Thermal Power Project- Patna, Bihar Odisha
Karimnagar, Telangana Railways)
ii) Farakka Super Thermal Power Station – Distt. Northern Region
ii) Simhadri Super Thermal Power Project- Distt. 2. Patratu Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Limited: Patratu Thermal
Murshidabad, West Bengal
Vishakapatnam, Andhra Pradesh i) 5MW, Dadri Solar Power Plant, Dadri, Distt. Gautam Power Project, Patratu, Jharkhand
iii) Kahalgaon Super Thermal Power Project- Distt. Budh Nagar, Uttar Pradesh
iii) Telangana Super Thermal Power Project, Distt. 3. Ratnagiri Gas & Power Pvt. Ltd. : Ratnagiri Power Project
Bhagalpur, Bihar
Karimnagar, Telangana ii) 5MW, Faridabad Solar Power Plant, Distt. Faridabad, - Maharashtra
iv) North Karanpura Super Thermal Power Project – Distt. Haryana
iv) Kudgi Thermal Power Project, Distt. Bijapur, Karnataka 4. THDC India Ltd, Ganga Bhawan, Pragatipuram, By-Pass
Hazaribagh, Jharkhand
iii) 10 MW Unchahar PV Solar Power Station, Distt. Road Rishikesh-249201.
Western Region I
v) Barauni Thermal Power Project, Distt. Begusarai, Bihar Raebareli, Uttar Pradesh
5. North Eastern Electric Power Corporation Limited,
i) Solapur Super Thermal Power Project – Distt. Solapur,
vi) Nabinagar Super Thermal Power Project,Dist- iv) 15 MW Singrauli Solar PV Power Stations, Distt. Brookland Compound, Lower New Colony, Shillong
Maharashtra
Aurangabad, Bihar Sonebhadra, Uttar Pradesh
6. NTPC Green Energy Limited
ii) Mouda Super Thermal Power Project – Distt. Nagpur,
vii) Muzaffarpur Thermal Power Station (Kanti Bijli)- Dist. v) 20 MW Auraiya Solar Power Project – Distt. Auraiya,
Maharashtra Commissioned Solar Power Projects under NTPC Green
Muzaffarpur, Bihar Uttar Pradesh
Energy Limited:
Western Region -II
Eastern Region II vi) 20 MW Auraiya Floating Solar Power Project – Distt.
Northern Region
i) Korba Super Thermal Power Station- Distt. Korba, Auraiya, Uttar Pradesh
i) Talcher Super Thermal Power Station- Distt. Angul,
Chhattisgarh i) 140 MW Bilhaur-I and 85 MW Bilhaur-II Solar Power
Odisha vii) 20 MW Rihand Solar Power Project – Distt. Sonebhadra,
Project, Dist. Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh
ii) Sipat Super Thermal Power Project-Distt. Bilaspur, Uttar Pradesh
ii) Talcher Thermal Power Station- Distt. Angul, Odisha
Chattisgarh ii) 160 MW Jetsar Solar Power Project- Dist. Ganganagar,
viii) 735 MW Nokh Solar Project- Dist. Jaisalmer, Rajasthan
iii) Bongaigaon Thermal Power Project, Distt. Kokrajhar, Rajasthan
iii) Gadarwara Super Thermal Power Project, Distt.
Assam. ix) 5MW, Dadri Solar Power Plant, Dadri, Distt. Gautam
Narsinghpur, Madhya Pradesh iii) 296 MW Fatehgarh Solar Project- Dist. Jaisalmer,
Budh Nagar, Uttar Pradesh
iv) Darlipalli Super Thermal Power Project, Distt. Rajasthan
iv) Lara Super Thermal Power Project, Distt. Raigarh,
Sundergarh, Jharsuguda, Odisha x) 5MW, Faridabad Solar Power Plant, Distt. Faridabad,
Chattisgarh iv) 150 MW Devikot-I & 90 MW Devikot-II Solar Project-
Haryana
Northern Region Dist. Jaisalmer, Rajasthan
v) Khargone Super Thermal Power Project, Distt.
Southern Region
i) Feroze Gandhi Unchahar Thermal Power Station – Distt. Khargone, Madhya Pradesh v) 250 MW Sambhu Ki Bhurj-I & 300 MW Sambhu Ki Bhurj-
Raebareli, Uttar Pradesh i) 5 MW Solar PV Power Plant, Port Blair, A&N Islands II Solar Project- Dist. Bikaner, Rajasthan
vi) Barethi Super Thermal Power Project, Distt. Chhatarpur,
ii) Rihand Super Thermal Power Project – Distt. Madhya Pradesh ii) 10 MW Ramagundam Solar Power Station, Distt. vi) 300 MW Nokhra Solar Project- Dist. Bikaner, Rajasthan
Sonebhadra, Uttar Pradesh Karimnagar, Andhra Pradesh
GAS PROJECTS vii) 14 MW Ayodhya Solar Power Project, Ayodhya, Uttar
iii) Singrauli Super Thermal Power Station- Distt. iii) 25 MW Simhadri Floating Solar Power Station, Distt. Pradesh
Northern Region
Sonebhadra, Uttar Pradesh Vishakapatnam, Andhra Pradesh
Southern Region
i) Auraiya Gas Power Project – Distt. Auraiya, Uttar Pradesh
iv) Tanda Thermal Power Station- Distt. Ambedkar Nagar, iv) 92 MW Kayamkulam Floating Solar Station, Distt.
i) 250 MW Anantapur Solar PV Project, Distt. Anantapur,
Uttar Pradesh ii) Faridabad Gas Power Project – Distt. Faridabad, Haryana Alappuzha, Kerala
Andhra Pradesh
v) Vindhyachal Super Thermal Power Station- Distt. iii) National Capital Gas Power Station- Distt. Gautam Budh v) 100 MW Ramagundam Floating Solar Power Station,
ii) 230 MW Ettayapuram Solar Power Station, Distt.
Singrauli, Madhya Pradesh Nagar, Uttar Pradesh Distt. Karimnagar, Andhra Pradesh
Thoothukudi, Tamil Nadu
234 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 235
Western Region -I ii) Durgapur CPP-II - Distt. Burdwan, West Bengal
Details Telephone No. Fax No.
i) 260MW Bhadla Solar Power Project, Distt. Jodhpur, iii) Bhilai CPP - Bhilai (East), Chattisgarh
Chief Investor Relations Officer 011-2436 7072 011-24361018
Rajasthan
b. NTPC Tamil Nadu Energy Co. Ltd: Vallur Thermal Power Mr. Aditya Dar
ii) 150 MW Chattargarh Solar Power Projects, Rajasthan Project – Chennai, Tamil Nadu Executive Director (Finance)
Western Region -II c. Aravali Power Co. Pvt. Ltd.: Indira Gandhi Super Thermal E-mail id adityadar@ntpc.co.in
Power Project - Distt. Jhajjar, Haryana
i) 50 MW Solar PV Power Plant, Rajgarh, Madhya Pradesh Nodal officer for IEPF 011- 24365552 011-24361018
d. Meja Urja Nigam Pvt. Ltd.: Meja Super Thermal Power Director (Finance)
ii) 250MW Mandsaur Solar Power Project, Distt. Mandsaur,
Madhya Pradesh Project – Tehsil Meja, Allahabad E-mail id isd@ntpc.co.in
WIND POWER PROJECT e. Jhabua Power Limited: Jhabua, Madhya Pradesh Dy. Nodal officer for IEPF 011-24367072 011-24361018
Overseas Joint Venture Projects Mr. Aditya Dar
i) Rojmal Wind (50 MW ) Project, Gujarat
Executive Director (Finance)
i) Trincomalee Power Co. Ltd. : Trincomalee Power Project,
ii) Dayapar-I (50 MW), Gujarat
Trincomalee, Srilanka E-mail id isd@ntpc.co.in
7. NTPC Renewable Energy Limited
ii) Bangladesh- India Friendship Power Company (Pvt) Ltd. E-mail ID (exclusive) for redressal of investors complaints isd@ntpc.co.in; csntpc@ntpc.co.in
Commissioned Solar Projects Under NTPC Renewable Energy : Maitree Power Project at Khulna, Bangladesh
Limited: Awards & Recognitions - NTPC has been conferred with the prestigious 10th PSU
COAL MINING SITES
Awards by Governance Now in the category “Corporate
i) 320 MW Bhensada Solar Power Project, Distt. Jaisalmer, During the year NTPC has won various awards in recognition
i) Pakri Barwadih Coal Mining Project, Hazaribagh, Social Responsibility Commitment (Overall)”.
Rajasthan of its commitment towards achievements as a responsible
Jharkhand
corporate citizen. To mention among the few, - NTPC has been conferred with the prestigious Corporate
ii) 150 MW Chhatargarh Solar Power Project- Distt. Bikaner,
ii) Chatti-Bariatu Coal Mining Project, Hazaribag, Governance and Sustainability Vision Awards 2024 by
Rajasthan - NTPC has been conferred with the prestigious Corporate
Jharkhand the Indian Chamber of Commerce, recognizing its
Governance and Sustainability Vision Awards 2024 by
iii) 200 MW Amreshwar Solar Power Project- Distt. exemplary contributions to Corporate Social
iii) Kerandari Coal Mining Project, Hazaribagh, Jharkhand the Indian Chamber of Commerce, recognizing its
Vadodara, Gujarat Responsibility (CSR).
exemplary contributions to Corporate Social
iv) Talaipalli Coal Mining Project, Raigarh, Chattisgarh
iv) 150 MW Limdi, Mithapur, Mesanka Solar Power Project- Responsibility (CSR).
Distt. Surendranagar, Gujarat v) Dulanga Coal Mining Project, Sundargarh, Odisha
v) 150 MW Dayapar Wind Power Project- Distt. Kachchh, vi) Badam Coal Mining Project, Hazaribagh Jharkhand
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
Gujarat
JOINT VENTURE COAL MINES
JOINT VENTURES
i) Banhardih Coal Mining Project, Latehar, Jharkhand (in
Sd/-
Thermal Power Stations JV with JVBNL)
(Gurdeep Singh)
a. NTPC –SAIL Power Company Ltd. xxv) Address for Correspondence Chairman & Managing Director
Place : New Delhi
i) Rourkela CPP-II - Distt. Sundargarh, Odisha NTPC Bhawan, Scope Complex, 7, Institutional Area, Lodi
Date : 2 August 2024
Road, New Delhi-110003
The phone numbers and e-mail reference for communication are given below:
Annexure-1
Details Telephone No. Fax No.
Registered Office: 011-24387333 011- 24361018 DISCRETIONARY REQUIREMENTS and also hosted on the website of the Company. These
NTPC Limited results are not separately circulated.
Besides the mandatory requirements, as mentioned in
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex, 7 Institutional Area,
preceding pages, the status of compliance with the C. Modified opinion(s) in audit report: The Auditors’
Lodhi Road, New Delhi -110003
discretionary requirements under Regulation 27(1) of SEBI report is unmodified.
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer 011-24360959 011-2436 0241 (LODR) are as under:
D. Separate Post of Chairperson and the Managing
Ms. Ritu Arora
A. The Board: The Company is headed by an Executive Director or Chief Executive Officer: The Company is
E-mail id csntpc@ntpc.co.in Chairman. headed by an Executive Chairman.
B. Shareholder Rights: The quarterly financial results of E. Reporting of Internal Auditor: The Internal Auditor
the Company are published in leading newspapers as reports to the Audit Committee of the Board.
mentioned under heading ‘Means of Communication’
236 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 237
Annexure-2 Chief Executive Officer (CEO) & Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Certification
We, Gurdeep Singh, Chairman & Managing Director and Jaikumar Srinivasan, Director (Finance) of NTPC Limited, certify that:
CERTIFICATE OF NON-DISQUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS
(a) We have reviewed financial statements and the cash flow statement for the year ended March 31, 2024 (stand-alone and
(pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and Schedule V Para C clause (10)(i) of the SEBI
consolidated), and to the best of our knowledge and belief:
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015)
(i) these statements do not contain any materially untrue statement or omit any material fact or contain statements that
To, might be misleading;
The Members of
(ii) these statements together present a true and fair view of the Company’s affairs and are in compliance with existing
NTPC LIMITED
accounting standards, applicable laws, and regulations.
NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex,
7, Institutional Area, Lodhi Road, (b) To the best of our knowledge and belief, no transactions has been entered into by the Company during the year, which is
New Delhi – 110 003 fraudulent, illegal, or violative of the company’s various code(s) of conduct.
(c) We are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal controls for financial reporting and we have evaluated the
We have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns and disclosures received from the Directors of NTPC Limited
effectiveness of the internal control systems of the Company pertaining to financial reporting and have disclosed to the auditors
having CIN: L40101DL1975GOI007966 and having registered office at NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex, 7, Institutional Area,
and the Audit Committee, deficiencies in the design or operation of internal controls, if any, of which we are aware and the
Lodhi Road, New Delhi – 110 003 (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Company’), produced before us by the Company for the
steps we have taken or propose to take to rectify these deficiencies.
purpose of issuing this Certificate, in accordance with Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V Para-C Sub clause 10(i) of the
Securities Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, for the Financial (d) We have indicated to the Company’s auditors and the Audit Committee of NTPC’s Board of Directors:
Year ending on 31st March, 2024 (hereinafter referred to as ‘financial year under review’).
(i) significant changes, if any, in internal control over financial reporting during the year;
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the verifications [including Directors Identification Number
(DIN) status at the portal www.mca.gov.in as considered necessary and explanations furnished to us by the Company & its (ii) significant changes, if any, in accounting policies during the year and the same have been disclosed in the notes to the
financial statements; and
officers, we hereby certify that none of the Directors on the Board of the Company, as on the closure of the financial year
under review, have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as Directors of companies by the
(iii) instances of significant fraud of which we have become aware and the involvement therein, if any, of the management or
Securities and Exchange Board of India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such other Statutory Authority. an employee having a significant role in the company’s internal control system over financial reporting.
Ensuring the eligibility for the appointment/continuity of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the management
of the Company. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these based on our verification. This certificate is neither an
assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which the management has
conducted the affairs of the Company.
Sd/- Sd/-
Place : New Delhi (Jaikumar Srinivasan) (Gurdeep Singh)
Date : 21 May 2024 Director (Finance) Chairman & Managing Director
For A. Kaushal & Associates
Company Secretaries
CS Amit Kaushal
Mem. No.: F6230
Place: New Delhi C. P. No.: 6663
Date: 13 June 2024 UDIN: F006230F000567615
238 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 239
Independent Auditors’ Certificate on Compliance of Conditions of Corporate Governance 9. We state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor the efficiency or
effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
To
The Members of
For Amit Agrawal & Associates
NTPC Limited
{Company Secretaries}
CS Amit Agrawal
1. This certificate is issued in accordance with the terms of our engagement letter dated 1st July 2024.
Partner
2. We have examined the compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance by NTPC Limited (‘the Company’) for the year M No. 5311, CP No-3647
ended 31st March, 2024 as stipulated in Regulations 17 to 27, clause (b) to (i) of regulation 46 (2) and paragraphs C and Date: 12 June 2024 UDIN:F005311F727219
D of Schedule V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Place: Delhi Peer Review No..853/2020
Regulations, 2015 (“the Listing Regulations”) and as stipulated in the Guidelines on Corporate Governance for Central
Public Sector Enterprises issued by Department of Public Enterprises (DPE), Government of India (“the DPE Guidelines”).
Management’s Responsibility for compliance with the conditions of Listing Regulations
3. The compliance with the terms and conditions contained in the corporate governance is the responsibility of the
Management of the Company including the preparation and maintenance of all relevant supporting records and
documents. This responsibility includes the design, implementation and maintenance of internal control and procedures
to ensure the compliance with the conditions of Corporate Governance stipulated in the Listing Regulations and DPE
Guidelines.
Auditor’s Responsibility
4. Our examination is limited to procedures and implementation thereof adopted by the Company for ensuring the
compliance of the conditions of Corporate Governance. It is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the financial
statements of the Company.
5. Pursuant to the requirements of the Listing Regulations and DPE Guidelines, it is our responsibility to provide a reasonable
assurance whether the Company has complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in the Listing
Regulations and DPE Guidelines for the year ended 31st March, 2024.
6. We conducted our examination in accordance with the Guidance Note on Reports or Certificates for Special Purposes
(Revised 2016) (the ‘Guidance Note’) issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India (‘ICSI’). The Guidance Note
requires that we comply with the ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics issued by ICSI.
7. We have complied with the relevant applicable requirements of the Standard on Quality Control (SQC) 1, Quality Control
for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information, and Other Assurance and Related Services
Engagements.
Opinion
8. In our opinion, and to the best of our information and according to explanations given to us, we certify that the Company
has complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in the above-mentioned Listing Regulations
and DPE Guidelines subject to the following:
a. The Company was not in compliance with the provisions of Regulation 17 and 25(6) of SEBI (Listing Obligations and
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 regarding the requirements of having at least half of the Board of Directors
as the Independent Directors and filing the vacancy of the Independent Directors within Specified Period. Further,
half of the Board of the Company was not “non-executive” for a certain period.
b. The Company was not in compliance with the Regulation 17(10) of the SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015 related to the
evaluation of the Independent Directors of the Company by the entire Board of Directors of the Company.
240 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 241
Annexure - III to Directors’ Report B. TECHNOLOGY ABSORPTION
Energy Conservation, Technology Absorption and Foreign Exchange Efforts made towards technology absorption are contained in enclosed Form-B
C. FOREIGN EXCHANGE EARNINGS AND OUTGO
Earnings & Outgo
The Foreign Exchange earned in terms of actual inflow during the year and the Foreign Exchange Outgo during the year
in terms of actual outflow as under:
{PURSUANT TO SECTION 134(3)(m) OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013 READ WITH RULE 8(3) OF THE COMPANIES (ACCOUNTS)
RULES, 2014}
Total Foreign Exchange Used/ Earned (2023-24) (````` Crore)
1. Actual foreign exchange outgo on account of
A. CONSERVATION OF ENERGY: balance in various areas, including the main plant, off-sites,
office buildings, street lighting and common facilities of the - Procurement of capital goods, coal and spare parts 786.53
a) Energy conservation measures taken:
station and township, and residential units within the
- Interest & Foreign currency loan/bond issue expenses 1,522.43
Some of the key energy conservation measures township were continued.
implemented during the financial year 2023-24 in various - Professional & consultancy fee 1.24
HEAT ENERGY
areas are as under: - Others 1.99
Some of the actions taken to optimize heat energy at various
ENERGY AUDITS TOTAL 2,312.19
stations are:
During the financial year 2023-24, Mandatory Energy Audits 2. Actual foreign exchange earnings NIL
- Complete replacement of Cooling Tower (CT) fill pack.
were conducted at six stations in accordance with BEE
regulations. All other NTPC stations have carried out Auxiliary - Improving HP/IP Turbine cylinder efficiency during capital
FORM B 3. 3600 TPD Electrocoagulation system at NTPC Solapur
Power Consumption Energy Audits, and eight stations have overhaul.
conducted water audits. 4. 4 MLD Activated Filter Media Plant at NTPC Dadri
- Boiler modifications aimed at enhancing steam
Form for disclosure of particulars with respect to Absorption
AUXILIARY POWER CONSUMPTION parameters and efficiency. of Technology Ash-Technology
Some of the actions undertaken to reduce auxiliary power - Condenser jet cleaning and modification of cooling tower 1. Specific areas in which NETRA (NTPC Energy 1. Fly Ash based Light Weight Aggregate Pilot Plant Setup
consumption at various stations are: water nozzles to ensure proper water distribution. at NTPC-Sipat
Technology Research Alliance) have been carried
- Replacement of inefficient Boiler Feed Pump (BFP) b) Additional investments and proposals for reduction in out during financial year 2023-24 2. FALG technology: 100 cum/day fly ash based angular
cartridges based on high Specific Energy Consumption consumption of energy: shaped coarse aggregates plant
A. Major Projects:
(SEC).
Provision of ` 83.4 Cr has been kept in BE 2024-25 for different Waste to Energy
Carbon capture and Utilization Technology
- Replacement of tube mill liners. energy conservation schemes such as:
1. Torrefied Biomass Pellet (10 TPD Plant thru ‘Start Up’)
- Replacement of Ash Slurry Pumps with energy-efficient 1. 10 TPD ‘CO2 to Methanol’ Demo Plant at NTPC-
- Retrofitting VFD’s in CEP’s & LT drives
pumps. Vindhyachal Other areas:
- Energy efficient air conditioners, LED & ceiling fans
1. AC Microgrid at Netra (4 MWp & MWHr BESS)
- Replacement of ceiling fans with Brushless DC (BLDC) 2. 10TPD ‘CO2 to Ethanol ‘ Demo plant at NTPC-Lara
fans. - Grid-connected roof top Solar PV systems. 2. RSA (Residual Stress Analyzer): Evaluation of Ferritic &
3. Indigenous development of Catalyst for conversion of
- Installation of grid-connected rooftop solar PV systems. - Energy efficient LT motors CO2 to Methanol Austenitic Steel, Ni, Al, Cu tubes
- Application of energy-efficient coatings on the internals - Installation of high efficiency nozzles in CT 4. Pre-feasibility assessment of CO2 storage potential in Cat- B. Scientific Services Support to NTPC Stations on
of cooling water and other large water pumps. - Energy efficient slurry pumps. 1 Fields of India- with NCOE-CCUS,IIT Continuous basis
- Installation of scoop control for Boiler Feed Pumps (BFPs) NETRA also provides advanced scientific support to NTPC
- Various instruments for energy audits 5. CO2 based Carbonated Coarse Aggregate
for drum level control. Stations and outside power utilities mainly in the following
- Modification of Electrostatic Precipitator (ESP) ducts c) Impact of measures taken for energy conservation: Hydrogen Technology areas:
using Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) analysis. Savings achieved during financial year 2023-24 on account 1. Sea Water based Green Hydrogen (1 TPD Plant at NTPC I. Health assessment and residual life assessments of power
- Replacement of existing motors with energy-efficient of specific efforts for energy conservation: - Simhadri) plant components for improving the reliability and
motors. Sl Area/Activities Energy Savings ````` Crore 2. Development of High Temperature Steam Electrolyser availability of boiler, steam turbine, Gas turbines
- Replacement of old compressors with screw No. Unit Qty. 3. 150 Kg/Day Green Hydrogen from STP Water at Netra components by using different advanced NDE tools and
techniques
compressors. 1 Electrical MU 142.71 40.98
Water Technology
II. Remote Inspection of boiler header using in-house
- Optimization of the numbers of running major 2 Heat Energy MT 36140 15.34
1. Green Hydrogen from STP Water (150 Kg/Day Plant at developed robotic system, Evaluation of Post Weld Heat
equipment such as BFPs, CEPs, mills, CW pumps, and fans (equivalent MT
Netra) Treatment Quality of Ferromagnetic Steel Weld etc. using
during extended periods of partial loading. of coal)
Magnetic Coercive Force Measurement
2. 240 TPD Non Thermal Forward Osmosis based high
LIGHTING Grand Total 56.32
recovery system III. Implementation of Advance NDE Techniques such as
The replacement of conventional lighting with LEDs wherever Savings achieved during financial year 2022-23 - ` 58.45 Crore.
Phased Array Ultrasonic Testing (PAUT) for inspection of
242 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 243
weld joints on Boiler Tubes, in-situ detection of hydrogen • Ion exchange resins & activated carbon for capacity June’22, Activated Filter Media plant was commissioned NETRA activities have helped the stations in the analysis
damage in water wall, in-situ detection of crack in root enhancement and its kinetics in July’23 and NTFO was commissioned in March’24. of failures and their prevention. Techniques developed
region of LP turbine blades, Time of Flight Diffraction by NETRA are implemented at stations wherever
XIV.Advanced coal & ash characterization of samples of Continuous work is going on for the development of new
(TOFD) required. Regeneration treatments of resins, chemical
station to determine ash fusibility characteristics, products and processes for bulk Ash utilization and as a
cleaning/treatment and corrosion control measures
IV. Microstructural & chemical characterization of various slagging & fouling behavior of coal, elemental result novel technologies & products such as Light Weight
supported the stations in improving the efficiency and
alloys, stainless steels, super alloys and other advanced composition of coal & biomass, particle size analysis of Aggregate (LWA), CO2 based Carbonated Coarse etc. have
availability of boilers and various heat exchangers/
materials: fly ash, reactivity, abrasion behavior & grade been successfully developed and implemented. FALG
cooling towers, etc. Majority of projects of NETRA
determination of coal. Compositional analysis of fly ash Aggregate from Fly Ash project has been taken up at
• Identification of damage mechanisms in pressure involves development, implementation and
using EDXRF. Estimation of mercury in coal in ppm/ppb NTPC Sipat. Through advance scientific services like Non-
part components to reduce forced outages and demonstration of new technologies, so almost all
level Destructive Evaluation, CFD analysis and Metallurgy &
thereby improve availability & reliability of projects mentioned in above section (Work carried out
Failure Analysis, etc., NETRA is working constantly for
components; and, suitable measures recommended XV. CFD services in power plant domain and other relevant by NETRA in FY 2023-24) have technological trial
improvement in reliability, efficiency and as well as for
to OS, QA and O&M departments areas component in it.
reduction in O&M cost by the diagnosis of faults. NETRA
• Root cause analysis of boiler, turbine, generator and XVI.Scientific support for co-firing of torrefied & non torrefied is also working on cutting-edge technologies such as
3. R&D Expenditure
auxiliaries of power plant biomass/MSW. Detailed evaluation of blends to development of robotics solutions for inspection of CW
determine technical suitability & compatibility with coal Duct & water pipeline, visual inspection of boiler R&D expenditure on consolidated basis for FY2023-24 is
V. Substitution of OEM on high end & costly health
for co-firing in boiler. headers, boiler 1st pass internal inspection. Asset ` 483.63 crores.
assessment of GT components
Digitization & Monitoring through Drones, development
VI. Development of Chemical Formulations for Cooling 2. Benefits derived as a result of above Research & of novel sensors to increase reliability, safety and to 4. Technology Absorption, Adaptation and Innovation:
Water Treatment for high COC, to reduce the specific Technology Development:
reduce inspection & monitoring time as well as Particulars of some of the important technology
water consumption of plant
NETRA has taken up major projects for addressing manpower requirements. imported during last five (5) years are as follows:
VII. Quantitative and Qualitative analysis of deposit, solvent concerns such as environment and climate change,
selection and post operational chemical cleaning reliability and efficiency improvement, new and Sl No. Technology Year Stations
recommendations for boilers and Condenser renewable energy etc. NETRA has taken projects for 1. Environmental norms compliance 2018-24 For SO2 emission compliance, FGDs are under
VIII.Corrosion analysis, monitoring & its control in Power reducing carbon footprints by means of carbon capture (SO2 emission control by FGD & DSI) implementation in around 66000 MW and FGD/DSI in 8,930
plants for Fire Fighting System and CW System. and utilization. 10 TPD CO2 to Methanol project is aimed MW are already under operation.
at capturing CO2 from existing thermal plant and its
IX. Specialized analytical support for characterizing the utilization for production of valuable product such as 2. Environmental norms compliance 2018-24 Combustion Modification in 50 units of around 21GW
turbine, boiler, condenser, CT and De aerator deposits, Gen-4 Ethanol. CO2 capture block has been (NOx emission control by Combustion including units located in NCR i.e. 2 units of Dadri, 3 units of
corrosion products, heavy metals in effluents using state commissioned in Aug’22. Work is going on for the Modification i.e. installation overfired Jhajjar have already been completed.
of art equipment’s such as SEM, XRD, IC, TOC, particle indigenization of catalyst and reactor for conversion of dampers and others)
count analyzer, AAS & ICPMS etc CO2 to Gen-4 Ethanol plant. The Hydrogen generation 3. Early Warning System for Hydro Power 2021-22 NTPC has developed and implemented state of art automatic
X. Improvement in STP water quality by enhancing the block and Methanol synthesis block are in advanced Projects Early Warning System at TVHPP (Tapovan Vishnugarh Hydro
performance of sewage treatment and by carrying out stages of completion. In addition, NETRA has taken up Power Project) based on measurement of Level and Velocity
testing of organic matter, COD, BOD and TKN. Trace level projects such as CO2 to Gen-4 Ethanol at NTPC Lara. CO2 (mass flow) for warning and evacuation in case of catastrophic
Mercury testing’s in Coal and Effluent shall be drawn from waste flue gas of a coal fired power event.
plant and thereafter shall be synthesized to produce 4G- 4. Air Cooled Condensers (ACC) for 2023-24 Presently, NTPC is implementing Air Cooled Condenser in
XI. Residual life assessment of ACF, Cation Exchange Resin,
Ethanol. NETRA is also working on setting up a CO2 to reduction of water footprint North Karanpura STPP (3x660 MW) and Patartu STPP (3x800
Anion Exchange Resin, MB-SAC resin, MB-SBA resin, CPU
Urea plant. MW) I.e. total 06 units.
resin through analysis such as TEC, SSC, WRC, density.
In Hydrogen technology, R&D lab-scale and pilot-scale Air Cooled Condensers of Unit#1 (660 MW) and Unit#2 (660
XII. Particle size distribution and bead integrity of Cation
demonstration projects such as development of Sea MW) of North Karanpura STPP (3x660 MW) are already
Exchange, Anion Exchange, MB & CPU resin
water Electrolyser, Static hydrogen storage and commissioned and both the units are under commercial
XIII. Condition Monitoring of: Compression etc have been completed and development operation. The remaining one unit of North Karanpura STPP
of High Temperature steam electrolysers is under (3x660 MW) and three units of Patratu STPP (3x800 MW) are
• High voltage transformers through tools such as
progress. Sea water based green hydrogen project has currently in the execution phase.
Dissolve gas Analysis (DGA), FDS, SFR and Interfacial
Tension (IFT). been taken up at NTPC Simhadri. 5. Dry Bottom Ash Handling System 2022-23 To minimize water consumption, Dry Bottom Ash Handling
NETRA is working on development of innovative water for reduction of water footprint System is adopted instead of conventional Wet Bottom Ash
• Super heater / re-heater tubes of ageing boilers
technologies such Non-Thermal Forward Osmosis, Handling System for Coal Based Thermal Power Project at
through accelerated creep testing.
Electro-Dialysis Reversal, Electro Coagulation BIFPCL (Bangadesh India Friendship Power Company), Patratu
• Lubricating oils of rotating components using wear Desalination etc for the processing of STP and Sea water. (3x800 MW). With extraction of bottom ash in dry form and
debris analysis Electro-Dialysis Reversal plant was commissioned in requirement of meagre quantity of water for conditioning
and dust suppression, water requirement will be practically
eliminated for handling bottom ash.
244 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 245
Annexure - IV to Directors’ Report
Sl No. Technology Year Stations
6. Municipal Solid waste (MSW) to 2022-23 200 Ton per day MSW to charcoal through torrefaction Statistical Information on Reservation of SCs/STs/OBCs
Charcoal technology implemented in Ramna, Varanasi Plant. This
Charcoal will be co-fired in Boiler.
7. Decarbonisation of thermal power- 2023-24 NTPC is pioneer in utilizing agro residue for power generation, Representation of SCs/STs/OBCs as on 01.01.2024:
Higher percentage of Torrefied which is a carbon neutral fuel. NTPC has successfully
Biomass Cofiring demonstrated co-firing of 20% of torrefied biomass at Tanda Group Employees on Roll SCs %age STs %age OBCs %age
Stage-I unit on 30.03.2024 and enhanced capability of A 11252 1713 15.2 749 6.7 2983 26.5
biomass co-firing in thermal power plant. Approx 500 Metric
B 2117 349 16.5 182 8.6 327 15.4
ton Torrefied Biomass Co-firing done at Tanda Stage-I.
C 2424 355 14.6 191 7.9 978 40.3
D 386 99 25.6 41 10.6 121 31.3
Total* 16179 2516 15.6 1163 7.2 4409 27.3
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
*The above data is inclusive of manpower posted at JVs, Subsidiaries and manpower of taken over projects .
Sd/-
Place: New Delhi (Gurdeep Singh)
Recruitment of SCs/STs/OBCs during the year 2023:
Dated: 2 August 2024 Chairman & Managing Director
Group Total Recruitment SCs %age STs %age OBCs %age
A 1393 218 15.6 89 6.4 338 24.3
B 0 0 0.0 0 0.0 0 0.0
C 33 2 6.1 4 12.1 2 6.1
D 22 1 4.5 1 4.5 2 9.1
Total 1448 221 15.3 94 6.5 342 23.6
Promotions of SCs/STs during the year 2023:
Group Total Promotion SCs %age STs %age
A 1999 318 15.9 139 7.0
B 557 85 15.3 52 9.3
C 250 37 14.8 13 5.2
D 11 3 27.3 2 18.2
Total 2817 443 15.7 206 7.3
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Sd/-
Place: New Delhi (Gurdeep Singh)
Dated: 2 August 2024 Chairman & Managing Director
246 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 247
Annexure - V to Directors’ Report Annexure - VI to Directors’ Report
Information on persons with benchmark disabilities (PwBD) Annual Report on CSR activities
With a view to focus on its role as a socially responsible and Low Vision Aids for visually challenged employees and/ 1. A brief outline of the Company’s CSR policy, remaining 30% earmarked for activities outside these areas,
socially conscious organization, NTPC has endeavored to take or their dependents and Hearing Aid for hearing impaired including overview of projects of programs including projects of national importance. The CSR committee
responsibility for adequate representation of physically employees and/or their dependents proposed to be undertaken and a reference to the has the authority to approve projects beyond this ratio based
challenged persons in its workforce. With this in view, total web – link to the CSR policy and projects or on specific requirements, such as natural calamities or key
– Medical camps have been organized in various projects
of 33 PwBD (Persons with Benchmark Disabilities) were of NTPC for treatment and distribution of aids like programs. community needs.
recruited during the year 2023. As on 01.01.2024, 497(3.07%) artificial limbs, tricycles, wheelchairs, calipers etc. The core principles that guide NTPC’s CSR activities are:
NTPC Limited, India’s largest energy conglomerate, has been
PwBD (88 with Blindness and low vision, 109 with Deaf and
Hard of Hearing and 300 with Locomotor Disabilities ) are on – Shops have been allotted in NTPC Township to at the forefront of driving the country’s energy needs while • Self-Supported and Sustainable: Projects are designed
the rolls of the company. Reservation has been provided as DAP(Differently abled Persons) so that they may earn also emphasizing sustainable development and corporate for long-term viability, ensuring that communities can
per rules/policy. Some of the other initiatives taken for the their livelihood. social responsibility (CSR). The NTPC CSR Policy, revised in FY maintain the assets and systems created even after the
2022, is a testament to the company’s commitment in project’s completion.
welfare of PwBD over the years by NTPC are as under:
– Regular interactive meetings are being organized with
creating value for both business and society. This policy aligns
– In compliance to RPwD Act 2016, NTPC has in place Equal PwBD. • Low Cost - High Impact: The focus is on adopting cost-
with NTPC’s vision to be the world’s leading power company
efficient and impactful solutions.
Opportunity Policy under CHRC No.847/2018.
– In order to encourage and motivate children and youth and its mission to provide reliable power and related solutions
– Additional benefit of 4(four) days in the form of Special from neighborhood villages of NTPC Projects/Stations for in an economical, efficient, and environmentally friendly • Long-Lasting and Enduring: Priority is given to projects
Casual leave in a calendar year for specific requirements higher studies, NTPC has in place ‘NTPC Utkarsh’-Merit manner. that offer sustainable and lasting benefits to the
relating to the disability of the employee has been Scholarship under “NTPC Foundation” for community.
NTPC’s vision is to “be the World’s Leading Power Company,
provided to PwBD. students(including Physically Challenged ) from the Energizing India’s Growth,” while its mission focuses on • Strategic Alignment to Core Business: CSR activities are
– Travelling Allowance in respect of Attendant/Escort for neighborhood of its projects / stations . The scheme providing “Reliable Power and Related Solutions in an aligned with NTPC’s strengths and capabilities to leverage
accompanying a Employee with Disabilities on travel benefits students from neighborhood communities Economical, Efficient and Environmentally Friendly Manner, the company’s core competencies.
pursuing X, XII, ITI, BE/B.Tech and MBBS studies.
during Tour/Training. Driven by Innovation and Agility.” These guiding statements • Measurement and Feedback-Based Outcomes: All
– Physically challenged (Orthopedically Handicapped) underline NTPC’s dedication to not only power generation projects have defined measures for assessing their
– Liaison Officer (PwBD) and Grievance Redressal Officer
employees have been allowed to purchase a three but also sustainable and responsible growth. The CSR policy impact, with third-party assessments for high-impact
has been nominated at all Projects/stations/Regions.
wheeler vehicle with a hand fitted engine against their is an extension of this vision, aiming to deliver business and projects to ensure objective evaluation and feedback.
– For individual needs of the VH employees, screen reading normal entitlement (advance for scooter/ motorcycle/ environmental value through impactful projects.
NTPC’s CSR activities are governed by a board-level CSR
software and Braille shorthand machines are made moped) under NTPC conveyance Advance Rules.
The policy emphasizes focusing on four main areas: Committee comprising at least three directors, including one
available by the Projects. A website has been made DAP
– Relaxation in qualifying marks: Pass marks in lateral education, water, health, and sanitation. Further, other independent director. The governance structure includes a
friendly, particularly for Low Vision Employees.
recruitment and 10% relaxation in Executive Trainees thematic areas like sports, women empowerment, vocational three-tier system at corporate, regional, and station levels,
– Changes in the existing building have been/are being recruitment. 10% relaxation in written test and interview. skill development etc. are also given due importance in the responsible for planning, implementation, monitoring, and
made to provide barrier free access to differently abled. – The minimum performance level marks for promotions policy framework. To bring maximum value to society, the reporting on CSR projects.
Ramps have also been provided for unhampered activities are selected based on need assessment surveys,
(in workman categories) within the cluster is relaxed by At the Corporate Level, responsibilities include policy
movement of wheel chairs. inputs from various stakeholders, and alignment with
3 marks in case of employees belonging to SC/ ST/ formulation, strategic project selection, budget planning,
Schedule VII of the Companies Act. It advocates for outcome-
– At most of the NTPC Projects, wherever houses are Physically Challenged category. monitoring, and capability development of CSR professionals.
centric projects monitored for their impact and opportunities
located in multi-storied structures, allotments to PwBD The Regional Level focuses on coordination and monitoring
for improvement, thereby ensuring effective communication
has been made on the ground floor. Wherever required, of state or region-level activities, while the Station Level
gates/ door of the quarter has been widened. For and on behalf of the Board of Directors with stakeholders to instil confidence. handles project selection(regular), implementation, budget
– NTPC Medial Attendance and Treatment (MAT) rules The policy is applicable across all NTPC stations in India, planning, and management information systems (MIS). The
provide reimbursement towards expenses incurred by Sd/- encompassing the formulation, implementation, monitoring, effectiveness of CSR projects is assessed through internal and
the employees towards purchase/ replacement/ repair/ (Gurdeep Singh) evaluation, documentation, and reporting of CSR activities external evaluations, periodic audits, and impact
adjustment of artificial limbs/appliances for self and/or Chairman & Managing Director undertaken by NTPC throughout the country. This ensures a assessments.
Place: New Delhi unified and standardized approach to CSR across the
dependent family members and reimbursement towards Dated: 2 August 2024 organization. The CSR annual action plans and budgets are proposed by
stations, regions, and corporate CSR departments,
NTPC’s CSR efforts primarily focus on the local areas or consolidated, and approved by the CSR Committee and the
immediate vicinities of its stations and locations. About 70% Board.
of CSR funds are allocated to these local areas, with the
248 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 249
2. The composition of the CSR Committee. Amount Unspent (````` Crore)
The CSR Committee consists of two functional directors and three Independent Directors. As on 31st March 2024, the Total Amount Total Amount transferred to Unspent Amount transferred to any fund specified
composition of Board Level Corporate Social Responsibility & Sustainability Committee was as under:- Spent for the CSR Account as per sub¬ section (6) under Schedule VII as per second proviso
Financial Year of section 135 to sub-section (5) of section 135
Number of Number of
(in ````` crore)
Sl. Name of Directors Designation/nature meetings of CSR meetings of CSR
No of Directorship Committee held Committee attended Amount Date of Name of Amount Date of
during the year during the year transfer the Fund transfer
200.57 NIL NA NA NA NA
1 Shri Dillip Kumar Patel, Chairman of the Committee* 6 6
Director (HR),
f) Excess amount for set-off, if any:
2 Shri. Ramesh Babu V, Member (up to 31.01.2024) 6 6
Sl. No. Particular Amount (` Crore)
Director (Operations),
(1) (2) (3)
3 Shri. Ravindra Kumar, Member (w.e.f 26.02.2024) 0 0
i. Two percent of average net profit of the Company as per section 135(5)
Director (Operations),
of the Companies Act, 2013 337.98
4 Smt. Sangitha Varier Independent Director, Member 6 6
ii. *Total amount spent for the Financial Year 425.76
5 Shri Jitendra Tanna Independent Director, Member 6 6 iii. Excess amount spent for the Financial Year [(ii)-(i)] 87.78
6 Shri Vivek Gupta Independent Director, Member 6 6 iv. Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the
previous Financial Years, if any Nil
*Note: Following the superannuation of Shri Dilip Kumar Patel on 30.04.2024, Shri Jaikumar Srinivasan, Director (Finance)
with additional charge of Director (HR), is the current Chairman of the Committee at the time of preparing this report. v. Amount available for set off in succeeding Financial Years [(iii)-(iv)] 87.78
The committee recommends to the Board for approval, the CSR action plan as well as the amount of expenditure anticipated (*Including excess amount of ` 225.19 crore spent during the previous FYs i.e. 2021-22, 2022-23 and 2023-24)
on the CSR activities and monitors from time to time the Policy for CSR and the proposals approved by the Board.
7. Details of Unspent CSR amount for the preceding three financial years
3. Provide the web-link where Composition of CSR committee, CSR Policy and CSR projects approved by the board are
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
disclosed on the website of the company.
Sl. Preceding Amount Balance Amount Amount Spent Amount transferred Amount remaining Deficiency,
Web Link to the CSR Policy & Projects or programs
No. Financial transferred to in Unspent CSR in the Financial to a Fund as specified to be spent in if any
https://ntpc.co.in/about-us/corporate-functions/corporate-citizenship/corporate-social-responsibility Year(s) Unspent CSR Account under Year (in Rs) under Schedule VII succeeding
Account under subsection (6) as per second proviso Financial Years
4. Provide the executive summary along with web link (s) of Impact Assessment of CSR projects carried out in pursuance subsection (6) of section to subsection (5) of (in `````)
of sub-rule (3) of rule 8 of the Companies (Corporate Social responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014, if applicable (attach the of section 135 (in `````) 135 (in `````) section 135, if any
report): Nil
Amount Date of
5. Average net profit of the company for last three financial years (as per Section 198): (````` Crore) (in `````) Transfer
———————————————————————————————— Nil ————————————————————————————————
(a) Average net profit of the company as per sub-section (5) of section 135. 16898.80
(b) Two percent of average net profit of the company as per section 135(5) 337.98 8. Whether any capital assets have been created or acquired through CSR amount spent in the Financial Year: No, the
Company has not created or acquired any capital asset through CSR amount spent during FY 2023-24.
(c) Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the Nil
previous financial years. 9. Specify the reason(s), if the Company has failed to spend two per cent of the average net profit as per Section 135(5)
of the Companies Act, 2013 – Not applicable.
(d) Amount required to be set off for the financial year, if any 225.19
(e) Total CSR obligation for the financial year (b+c-d) 112.79
6. (a) Amount spent on CSR Projects (both Ongoing Project and other than Ongoing Project): ` 200.57 Crore
Sd/- Sd/-
(b) Amount spent in Administrative overheads. Nil (Gurdeep Singh) (Jaikumar Srinivasan)
Chairman & Managing Director Chairman, CSR Committee
(c) Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable. Nil
(d) Total amount spent for the Financial Year [(a)+(b)+(c)]. ` 200.57 Crore
(e) CSR amount spent or unspent for the Financial Year:
250 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 251
Annexure - VII to Directors’ Report Annexure - VIII to Directors’ Report
Project-wise ash produced and utilised Form No. AOC-2
(Pursuant to clause (h) of sub-section (3) of section 134 of the Act and Rule 8(2) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014)
The quantity of ash produced, ash utilized and percentage of such utilization during the financial year 2023-24 from your
Form for disclosure of particulars of contracts/arrangements entered into by the company with related parties referred to
company Stations is as under:
in sub-section (1) of section 188 of the Companies Act, 2013 including certain arm’s length transactions under third proviso
Sl. No. Projects Ash Produced Ash Utilization % Utilization
thereto.
Lakh MTs Lakh MTs %
1. Details of contracts or arrangements or transactions not at arm’s length basis –
1. BARAUNI 9.84 8.70 88.41
A)
2. BARH SUPER 37.28 45.57 122.23
a Name(s) of the related party and nature : NTPC Mining Limited (‘NML’), wholly owned subsidiary of NTPC Ltd.
3. BONGAIGAON 11.74 6.25 53.27
of relationship
4. DADRI 23.32 22.74 97.52
b Nature of contracts/arrangements/ : Sale of Coal mine business by NTPC Ltd. to NML, consisting of 6 coal
5. GADARWARA 21.33 23.82 111.69
transactions mines of the Company to NML at book value, through a business transfer
6. KANTI TPS 8.5 10.25 120.59 agreement (BTA) dated 17th August 2023.
7. KHARGONE 17.65 21.05 119.25
The BTA shall become effective upon completion of the condition’s
8. KUDGI 29.79 23.9 80.21 precedent mentioned in the BTA.
9. MOUDA 39.24 35.35 90.07 c Duration of the contract/ : The transaction will take place as per terms & conditions of the BTA in
10. NPGC NABINAGAR 29.92 20.96 70.07 arrangements/ transactions FY 2024-25
11. SIMHADRI 31.1 36.77 118.23 d Salient terms of the contracts or : Transfer of 6 Coal Mines from NTPC Ltd. to NTPC Mining Ltd. as going
arrangements or transactions including concern as a “Slump Sale” on “as is where is basis” for a total
12. SOLAPUR 16.14 17.13 106.18
the value, if any consideration of Rs. 7794.99 Crore
13. TANDA 26.07 28.14 107.93
e Date of approval of the Board, if any : 29th July 2023
14. UNCHACHAR 20.93 28.94 138.23
f Amount paid as advances, if any : Nil
15. DARLIPALLI 43.1 24.01 55.71
16. FARAKKA 29.84 44.33 148.59 B)
17. KAHALGAON 45.95 82.89 180.4 a Name(s) of the related party and nature : NTPC Vidyut Vyapar Nigam Limited, wholly owned subsidiary of NTPC
of relationship Ltd
18. KORBA 52.68 31.91 60.57
b Nature of contracts/arrangements/ : 1. Trading of Un-Requisitioned Surplus (URS) / regulated / and
19. LARA 31.71 32.83 103.55
transactions Merchant power of NTPC Station on daily basis.
20 NORTH KARANPURA 14.87 1.00 6.72
2. Power sale under National Solar Mission (NSM)-1 and cross border
21. RAMAGUNDAM 45.49 39.24 86.26 route on monthly basis.
22. RIHAND 42.23 33.96 80.42 c Duration of the contract/ : For financial year 2023-24
23. SINGRAULI 30.33 12.21 40.27 arrangements/ transactions
24. SIPAT 53.53 54.2 101.26 d Salient terms of the contracts or : S Particulars Value
25. TALCHER-KANIHA 68.71 46.76 68.04 arrangements or transactions including No.
the value, if any
1. Trading of URS / Trading margin @ 4 paise/KwHr for trading
26. TELANGANA 6.81 0.00 0.00
regulated / and of URS/ regulated / and merchant power for
27. VINDHYACHAL 66.83 37.58 56.23
Merchant power NTPC Stations subject to maximum of Rs. 6
NTPC Total 854.93 770.49 90.12 of NTPC Station. Lakh on daily basis with overall capping of
Rs. 8 Crore p.a which was subsequently
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors increased to Rs. 15 Crore p.a.
2. Power sale under Maximum value of Transaction shall be Rs.
NSM-1 and cross 300 Crore on monthly basis with overall
Sd/- border route on capping of Rs. 3350 Crore p.a.
(Gurdeep Singh) monthly basis.
Place: New Delhi Chairman & Managing Director
e Date of approval of the Board, if any : 29th July 2023 and 29th January 2024
Dated: 2 August 2024
f Amount paid as advances, if any : Nil
252 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 253
C) Annexure - IX to Directors’ Report
a Name(s) of the related party and nature : NTPC School of Business – Under NTPC Education and Research Society
Business Responsibility &
of relationship
b Nature of contracts/arrangements/ : Sponsorship for PGDM Program for officials Sustainability Report
transactions
c Duration of the contract/ : One year
SECTION A: GENERAL DISCLOSURES
arrangements/ transactions
d Salient terms of the contracts or : Sponsoring 10 officials of Discoms/customers and other stakeholders I. Details of the listed entity
arrangements or transactions including for PGDM-E programme for the Financial year 2023-24 in NTPC School 1. Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Listed Entity: L40101DL1975GOI007966
the value, if any of Business (NSB).
2. Name of the Listed Entity: NTPC LIMITED
- Rs 1.50 Crore
3. Year of incorporation: 1975
e Date of approval of the Board, if any : 29th July 2023
4. Registered office address: NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex, 7, Institutional
f Amount paid as advances, if any : Nil
Area, Lodhi Road, New Delhit-110 003
2. Details of material contracts or arrangements or transactions at arm’s length basis: 5. Corporate address: NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex, 7, Institutional
Area, Lodi Road, New Delhi-110 003
No material contracts or arrangements or transactions were entered by the Company with any Related Party, during the
period under review. 6. E-mail: sustainability@ntpc.co.in
7. Telephone: 011-24367333
8. Website: https://www.ntpc.co.in/
9. Financial year for which reporting is being done: 2023-24
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
10. Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares are listed: NSE and BSE
Sd/- 11. Paid-up Capital: ` 9,696.67 Crore
(Gurdeep Singh)
12. Name and contact details (telephone, email address) of the person Ms. Ritu Arora
Place: New Delhi Chairman & Managing Director
who may be contacted in case of any queries on the brsr report: (Company Secretary & compliance officer).
Date: 2 August 2024 DIN: 00307037
Phone: 011-24360959
Email: csntpc@ntpc.co.in
13. Reporting boundary - are the disclosures under this report made on Consolidated (Excluding Coal Mining)
a standalone basis (i.e. only for the entity) or on a consolidated basis
(i.e. for the entity and all the entities which form a part of its
consolidated financial statements, taken together):
14. Name of assurance provider Bureau veritas
15. Type of assurance obtained Reasonable/Limited
II. Products/services
16. Details of business activities (accounting for 90% of the turnover):
S. Description of Main Activity Description of Business Activity % of Turnover of the entity
No.
1 Generation of Electricity Power Generation 94.19%
17. Products/Services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of the entity's Turnover):
S. Product/Service NIC Code % of total Turnover contributed
No.
1 Power Generation from - Coal 35102 83.66
2 Power Generation from - Gas 35103 6.47
3 Power Generation from - Hydro 35101 2.76
4 Power Generation from - Solar 35105 1.22
5 Power Generation from - Wind 35106 0.08
254 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 255
Operations 2. Differently abled Employees and workers:-
18. Number of locations where plants and/or operations/offices of the entity are situated: S. No. Particulars Total (A) Male Female
Location Number of plants Number of offices Total No. (B) % (B / A) No. (C) % (C / A)
National 93 17 110 DIFFERENTLY ABLED EMPLOYEES
International 1 2 3 1 Permanent (D) 334 287 85.93% 47 14.07%
2 Other than Permanent (E) 27 25 92.59% 2 7.41%
19. Markets served by the entity: 3 Total differently abled employees (D + E) 361 312 86.43% 49 13.57%
a. Number of locations DIFFERENTLY ABLED WORKERS
Locations Number 4 Permanent (F) 311 270 86.82% 41 13.18%
National (No. of States) 25 (State & UT) 5 Other than permanent (G) 508 495 97.44% 13 2.56%
International (No. of Countries) 2 Countries (Sri Lanka and Bangladesh) 6 Total differently bled workers (F + G) 819 765 93.41% 54 6.59%
b. What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity? 21. Participation/Inclusion/Representation of women
0.76 % Total (A) No. and percentage of Females
c. A brief on types of customers: No. (B) % (B / A)
Board of Directors 11 1 9%
NTPC supplies electricity to various bulk customers located throughout the country. Our customers include.
Key Management Personnel 7 1 14.28%
• State-owned Electricity Utilities like State Electricity Distribution Companies, SEB Holding Companies, State Power
Departments
22. Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers
• Indian Railways
(Disclose trends for the past 3 years)
• Private distribution companies in Delhi
FY 2023-24 FY 2022-23 FY 2021-22 (Turnover
• Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB) and (Turnover rate (Turnover rate rate in the year prior
in current FY) in previous FY) to the previous FY)
• Nepal Electricity Authority (NEA)
Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total
Employees Permanent Employees 6.55% 5.16% 6.45% 6.55% 7.67% 6.44% 7.73% 5.48% 7.57%
20. Details as at the end of Financial Year: - Permanent Workers 8.56% 6.88% 8.39% 8.56% 9.09% 6.41% 10% 4% 9%
1. Employees and workers (including differently abled): Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies (including joint ventures)
S. No. Particulars Total (A) Male Female 23. (a) Names of holding / subsidiary / associate companies / joint ventures
No. (B) % (B / A) No. (C) % (C / A)
S. Name of the holding Indicate whether % of shares Does the entity indicated at
EMPLOYEES No. / subsidiary / associate holding/ Subsidiary/ held by listed column A, participate in the
companies / joint ventures (A) Associate/ Joint entity Business Responsibility initiatives
1 Permanent (D) 13367 12398 92.75% 969 7.25%
Venture of the listed entity? (Yes/No)
2 Other than Permanent Employees (E) 2318 2124 91.63% 194 8.37%
1 NTPC Electric Supply Company Ltd. Subsidiary 100% YES
3 Total employees (D + E) 15685 14522 92.59% 1163 7.41%
2 NTPC Vidyut Vyapar Nigam Ltd. Subsidiary 100% YES
WORKERS
3 Bhartiya Rail Bijlee Company Ltd. Subsidiary 74% YES
4 Permanent (F) 6707 6053 90.25% 654 9.75%
4 Patratu Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Ltd. Subsidiary 74% YES
5 Other than Permanent Employees (E) 122542 120143 98.04% 2399 1.96%
5 NTPC Mining Ltd. Subsidiary 100% YES
6 Total workers (F + G) 129249 126196 97.64% 3053 2.36%
6 THDC India Ltd. Subsidiary 74.49% YES
7 North Eastern Electric Power Subsidiary 100% YES
Corporation Ltd.
8 NTPC EDMC Waste Solutions Private Subsidiary 74% YES
Ltd.
256 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 257
S. Name of the holding Indicate whether % of shares Does the entity indicated at Transparency and Disclosures Compliances
No. / subsidiary / associate holding/ Subsidiary/ held by listed column A, participate in the 25. Complaints/Grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines on Responsible
companies / joint ventures (A) Associate/ Joint entity Business Responsibility initiatives Business Conduct:
Venture of the listed entity? (Yes/No)
Stakeholder group Grievance Redressal FY 2023-24 FY 2022-23
9 Ratnagiri Gas & Power Private Ltd. Subsidiary 86.49% YES from whom Mechanism in Place Current Financial Year Previous Financial Year
10 NTPC Green Energy Ltd. Subsidiary 100% YES complaint is received (Yes/No)
11 Utility Powertech Ltd. Joint Venture 50 YES (If Yes, then Number of Number of Remarks Number of Number of Remarks
provide web-link complaints complaints complaints complaints
12 NTPC-GE Power Services Pvt. Ltd. Joint Venture 50 YES
for grievance filed during pending filed during pending
13 NTPC-SAIL Power Co. Ltd. Joint Venture 50 YES redress policy) the year resolution the year resolution
at close of at close of
14 NTPC Tamil Nadu Energy Co. Ltd. Joint Venture 50 YES
the year the year
15 Aravali Power Company Pvt. Ltd. Joint Venture 50 YES
Communities Yes 112 9 •Infrastructure 347 53 •Infrastructure
16 Meja Urja Nigam Pvt. Ltd. Joint Venture 50 YES development development
17 NTPC-BHEL Power Project Pvt. Ltd. Joint Venture 50 YES •Quality of life •Quality of life
•Employment •Employment
18 National High Power Test Laboratory Joint Venture 21.63 YES
opportunities opportunities
Pvt. Ltd.
•Land •Land acquisition
19 Transformers and Electricals Kerala Ltd. Joint Venture 44.60 YES acquisition and and R&R issues
20 Energy Efficiency Services Ltd. Joint Venture 39.25 YES R&R issues •Increased
•Increased community
21 CIL NTPC Urja Pvt. Ltd. Joint Venture 50 YES
community involvement
22 Anushakti Vidyut Nigam Ltd. Joint Venture 49 YES involvement
23 Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Ltd. Joint Venture 29.67 YES Investors (other Yes 976 0 •Improving Rol 621 •Complaints
than shareholders) •Climate change relate to non-
24 Jhabua Power Limited Joint Venture 50 YES
& business receipt, and
sustainability revalidation of
CSR Details •Risk and warrants.
governance •Cases wrt
24. (i) Whether CSR is applicable as per section 135 of Companies Act, 2013: YES
compliance transmission
(ii) Turnover (in Rs.) (NTPC Standalone): Rs. 1,65,707.27 Crore and transfer of
•Increased
securities
disclosure on
(iii) Net worth (in Rs.) (NTPC standalone): Rs. 1,49,885.02 Crore
Environment,
Social and
Governance
(ESG) aspects
Shareholders Yes 880 0 •Complaints 1011 •Complaints
relate to non- relate to non-
receipt, and receipt, and
revalidation of revalidation of
warrants. warrants.
•Cases wrt •Cases wrt
transmission transmission
and transfer of and transfer of
securities. securities.
258 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 259
26. Overview of the entity's material responsible business conduct issues
Stakeholder group Grievance Redressal FY 2023-24 FY 2022-23
from whom Mechanism in Place Current Financial Year Previous Financial Year Please indicate material responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to environmental and social
complaint is received (Yes/No)
matters that present a risk or an opportunity to your business, rationale for identifying the same, approach to adapt or
(If Yes, then Number of Number of Remarks Number of Number of Remarks mitigate the risk along-with its financial implications, as per the following format.
provide web-link complaints complaints complaints complaints
S. Material issue Indicate Rationale for identifying the risk / In case of risk, approach to adapt Financial
for grievance filed during pending filed during pending
No. identified whether opportunity or mitigate implications
redress policy) the year resolution the year resolution
risk or of the risk or
at close of at close of
opportunity opportunity
the year the year
(R/O) (Indicate
Employees and workers Yes 8 0 •Professional 05 •Professional positive or
growth growth
negative
•Work life •Work life implications)
balance balance
1 Climate Change/ Both Increased focus on energy transition NTPC is diversifying its business portfolio Positive
•Health, safety •Health, safety
Energy Transition associated with climate change has in RE, Green Hydrogen, Power Trading,
and security and security
opened many avenues for energy sector Consultancy and doing flexibilization of its
•Timely •Timely players in terms energy diversification coal fleet.
resolution of resolution of such as RE, energy storage and ancillary
As part of NTPC's preparedness against
grievances grievances services. Also, Influx of more variable
climate change related situations our
•Transparent •Transparent renewable energy in the grid would power plants and infrastructure are
appraisal and appraisal and require greater support of flexible designed to withstand cyclones and floods
promotion promotion cycle operation of coal stations. while our cooling systems are designed to
cycle Climate change is posing both physical withstand the increase in temperatures
Customers Yes 22 0 •Resolving 19 •Resolving and transition risks to all business brought forth by climate change.
commercial commercial entities including NTPC. The risks
To de-risk its business from transition risk,
issues issues associated with the increase in sea
NTPC is making substantial progress
•Resolving •Resolving levels, water stress situations, increased towards decarbonization of energy through
technical issues technical issues heat waves, erratic rainfall and frequent increasing penetration of renewables in its
natural disasters may impact the
Value Chain Partners Yes 0 0 •Transparent 0 •Transparent portfolio.
business.
dealings dealings
Rising climate change concerns and
•Timely •Timely
threats may bring future policy and
payments payments
regulatory risks in terms of carbon tax
•Fair •Fair
and cess.
opportunities opportunities
2 Water Security Risk Water is an essential resource for the The proactive measures for water Negative
•Sustainable •Sustainable
NTPC, and hence water scarcity can conservation include process
supply chain supply chain
significantly impact the operations of improvements and technology adoption in
Other (please specify) 0 NTPC. all possible manners. Some of the key
measures being adopted at power
generating stations are:
• Optimisation of cycles of
concentration (COC)
• Implementation of ZLD to reduce
freshwater consumption,
• Adoption of Air-Cooled Condenser
(ACC) based cooling in water stressed
locations etc. and planning to adopt
the same at all future projects
excluding only where technically not
feasible.
• Dry Ash Evacuation System (DAES) &
High Concentration Slurry Discharge
(HCSD) technology to minimize use
of water in Ash handling.
260 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 261
S. Material issue Indicate Rationale for identifying the risk / In case of risk, approach to adapt Financial Disclosure Questions P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9
No. identified whether opportunity or mitigate implications
All policies relevant to external stakeholders are available on NTPC's website Policies specific to principals are.
risk or of the risk or
A. CDA rules
opportunity opportunity
B. Code of Conduct
(R/O) (Indicate
C. ABAC policy
positive or
D. Fraud Prevention Policy
negative
E. Related Party Transaction
implications)
F. Whistle Blower Policy
3 Safety or Hazard Risk Risk With a large workforce involved in both To embed safety in all systems and Negative
G. Training Policy for Directors:
operating stations as well as projects processes, Safety policy has been revised
H. Complaint Handling Policy
under construction, safety of people and "SAP integrated Safety Framework"
I. Safety Policy
and property remains a potential risk. has been implemented across the
J. NTPC Policy for CSR
organization to mitigate risks and eliminate
hazards. K. Ash Policy
L. Sustainable Supply Chain Policy
4 Digitalization Opportunity The dynamic business landscape is Positive
M. Placement and Transfer Policy
being driven through Digitalization. In
N. Human Rights Policy
this highly competitive era,
O. Equal Opportunity Policy
digitalization is enabling faster decision
P. Career development & Succession planning policy
making, reducing costs through
Q. Recruitment Policy
automation and rendering long term
competitive advantage. R. R&R Policy
S. ICD policy
T. Environmental Policy
SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES
U. Biodiversity Policy
V. E-Waste Policy
This section is aimed at helping businesses demonstrate the structures, policies and processes put in place towards adopting
W. Water Policy
the NGRBC Principles and Core Elements.
X. Integrate Plastic Management Policy
Disclosure Questions P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 Y. Waste Management Policy
Policy and management processes Z. ESG policy
Our policies are available at https://www.ntpc.co.in/sustainability/policies
Businesses Businesses Businesses Businesses Businesses Businesses Businesses, Businesses Businesses
should should should should should should when should should 2. Whether the entity has translated the policy into Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
conduct provide respect respect respect respect engaging promote engage procedures. (Yes / No)
and govern goods and and the and and make in inclusive with and
3. Do the enlisted policies extend to your value chain Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
themselves services in promote interests of promote efforts to influencing growth provide
partners? (Yes/No)
with a manner the well- and be human protect public and and value to
4. Name of the national and international codes/ SEBI ISO ISO Schedule Companies ISO SEBI Com- SDGs
integrity, that is being of all responsive rights and regulatory equitable their
certifications/ labels/ standards (e.g. Forest Stewardship LODR 9001 45001 II part Act 2013, 14001, LODR panies
and in a sustainable employees, to all its restore the policy, development consumers
Council, Fairtrade, Rainforest Alliance, Trustea) standards require- OSHAS OSHAS D SEBI Schedule ISO require- Act
manner and safe including stakeholders environment should do in a
(e.g. SA 8000, OHSAS, ISO, BIS) adopted by your entity ment 18001 18001 regulation II part 50001 ment 2013
that is those in so in a responsible
and mapped to each principle. 2015 D SEBI OHSAS
Ethical, their value manner manner
regulation 18001
Transparent chains that is
2015
and responsible
Accountable. and
transparent.
1. a. Whether your entity's policy/policies cover each Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
principle and its core elements of the NGRBCs.
(Yes/No)
b. Has the policy been approved by the Board? Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
(Yes/No)
c. Web Link of the Policies, if available A, B, C, D, I, J, K, L, Z M, N, O, J, N, R, N J, K, L, T, A, B, C, L, R, S, Z A, H, X, Z
E, F, G, H, P, I, Z S, Z U, V, W, E, Z
O, P, R, S, Z X, Y, Z
262 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 263
Disclosure Questions P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 10. Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company:
5. Specific commitments, goals and targets set by the Zero cases At NTPC At NTPC We are We are We are Subject for Review Indicate whether review was undertaken Frequency (Annually/ Half yearly/
entity with defined timelines, if any. of adverse we are we are comitted to committed targeting to by Director / Committee of the Board/ Quarterly/ Any other - please specify)
business committed committed ensuring to reduce increase the Any other Committee
ethics to reduce to reduce No human our energy Number of
P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9
our fatality our fatality rights intensity by cumulative
rate to zero rate to zero violation 12% by beneficiaries Performance against Above policies and follow up action Yes Quarterly and as required.
througout 2032, as well of our
Compliance with statutory requirements of relevance to Yes
our supply as reduce community
the principles, and, rectification of any non-compliances
chain our specific development
water projects to 11. Has the entity carried out independent assessment/ P 1 P 2 P 3 P 4 P5 P 6 P 7 P8 P 9
consumption 18 million evaluation of the working of its policies by an external Yes, NTPC has undertaken Reasonable assurance of it Integrated Annual Report as per the GRI standards by Bureau
from 3.81 to people by agency? (Yes/No). If yes, provide name of the agency. Veritas.
2.5 l/kWh by 2032
The Details of the same can be found at page no 671
2032. We
are also
12. If answer to question (1) above is "No" i.e. not all Principles are covered by a policy, reasons to be stated:
planning to
plant 47 The question is not applicable to the NTPC as all the NGRBC principles are covered under our policies.
million tree
sapling by SECTION C: PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE
2032
from 2012 This section is aimed at helping entities demonstrate their performance in integrating the Principles and Core Elements with
baseline key processes and decisions. The information sought is categorized as "Essential" and "Leadership". While the essential
6. Performance of the entity against the specific 0 adverse 5 fatalities 5 fatalities 5.20 % 16.3 million indicators are expected to be disclosed by every entity that is mandated to file this report, the leadership indicators may be
commitments, goals and targets along-with cases in FY reported in reported in reduction in people voluntarily disclosed by entities which aspire to progress to a higher level in their quest to be socially, environmentally, and
reasons in case the same are not met. 23-24 FY 23-24 FY 23-24 Net energy reached so ethically responsible.
intensity/ 1 far
% reduction PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in a manner that is Ethical,
in specific
Transparent and Accountable.
water
consumption Essential Indicators
and 39
1. Percentage coverage by training and awareness programs on any of the principles during the financial year:
million trees
planted. Segment Total number of training Topics / principles covered % age of persons in
Governance, leadership and oversight and awareness programs under the training and respective category covered
7. Statement by director responsible for the business responsibility report, highlighting ESG related challenges, targets and achievements (listed entity has flexibility regarding held its impact by the awareness programs
the placement of this disclosure)
Board of Directors 4 P1 & P7 18.18%
The statement of CMD can be found at the page no 16 of our Integrated Annual Report 2023-24.
Key Managerial Personnel 4 P1 & P7 28.57%
8. Details of the highest authority responsible for
DIN Number 00307037
Employees other than BoD 3162 P1 to P9 88.23%
implementation and oversight of the Business
Responsibility policy (ies). Name Gurdeep Singh and KMPs
Designation Chairman & Managing director
Workers 1616 P2 to P9 72.48%
Telephone No 011-24360044
* NTPC standalone data
Email ID cmd@ntpc.co.in
9 Does the entity have a specified Committee of the Yes, we have the Board level Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Committee along with Risk 2. Details of fines / penalties /punishment/ award/ compounding fees/ settlement amount paid in proceedings (by the
Board/ Director responsible for decision making Management Committee. In addition, we also have a management level committee, named ESG and Climate entity or by directors / KMPs) with regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, in the financial year, in
on sustainability related issues? (Yes / No). If yes, Change Committee that operate under the Director (Operations). the following format (Note: the entity shall make disclosures on the basis of materiality as specified in Regulation 30
provide details. The detailed structure can be found at of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Obligations) Regulations, 2015 and as disclosed on the entity's website):
https://www.ntpc.co.in/sustainability/governance
264 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 265
NGRBC Name of the regulatory/ Amount (in INR) Brief of the Case Has an appeal 8. Number of days of accounts payables ((Accounts payable *365) / Cost of goods/services procured) in the following
Principle enforcement been preferred? format:
agencies/judicial (Yes/No) FY 2023-24 FY 2022-23
institutions (Current Financial Year) (Previous Financial Year)
Monetary Number of days of accounts payables* 30.62 30.38
Penalty/Fine NIL NIL NIL NIL NIL
*NTPC standalone
Settlement NIL NIL NIL NIL NIL
Compounding Fee NIL NIL NIL NIL NIL
9. Open-ness of business provide details of concentration of purchases and sales with trading houses, dealers, and
Non-Monetary related parties along-with loans and advances & investments, with related parties, in the following format:*
Imprisonment NIL NIL NIL NIL NIL
Parameter Metrics FY 2023-24 FY 2022-23
Punishment NIL NIL NIL NIL NIL
(Current Financial Year) (Previous Financial Year)
Concentration of Purchases a. Purchases from trading 0 0
3. Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal/ Revision preferred in cases where monetary or
houses as % of total
non-monetary action has been appealed.
purchases
No instances were reported in question 2 above, hence not applicable. b. Number of trading houses 0 0
where purchases are made
4. Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief and if available, provide
from
a web-link to the policy.
c. Purchases from top 10 0 0
Yes, NTPC has a Anti Bribery and Anit Corruption (ABAC) policy in place to ensure its business is conducted in accordance
trading houses as % of total
with the highest ethical standards. The same can be accessed through https://www.ntpc.co.in/sites/default/files/policy-
purchases from trading
documents/NTPC-ABAC-Policy-2023_0.pdf
houses
5. Number of Directors/KMPs/employees/workers against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law enforcement Concentration of Sales a. Sales to dealers / 99.92% 99.94%
agency for the charges of bribery/ corruption: distributors as % of total
sales
FY 2023-24 FY 2022-23
(Current Financial Year) (Previous Financial Year) b. Number of dealers / 76 76
distributors to whom sales
Directors 0 0
are made
KMPs 0 0
c. Sales to top 10 dealers / 60.09% 58.31%
Employees 0 0
distributors as % of total
Workers 0 0
sales to dealers /
distributors
6. Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest:
Share of RPTs in a. Purchases (Purchases with 0.88% 1.50%
FY 2023-24 FY 2022-23 related parties / Total
(Current Financial Year) (Previous Financial Year) Purchases)
Number Remarks Number Remarks b. Sales (Sales to related 1.65% 1.62%
Number of complaints received in relation to 0 NA 0 NA parties / Total Sales)
issues of Conflict of Interest of the Directors
c. Loans & advances (Loans & 11.04% 44.42%
Number of complaints received in relation to 0 NA 0 NA advances given to related
issues of Conflict of Interest of the KMP's parties / Total loans &
advances)
7. Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines / penalties / action taken by d. Investments (Investments in 99.32% 99.64%
regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts of interest. related parties / Total
No corrective action was taken as no such issues were identified. Investments made)
*NTPC standalone
266 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 267
Leadership Indicators 2. If there are any significant social or environmental concerns and/or risks arising from production or disposal of your
products / services, as identified in the Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) or through any other means, briefly
1. Awareness programs conducted for value chain partners on any of the principles during the financial year:
describe the same along-with action taken to mitigate the same.
We are in the process of developing a mechanism to collect data as required by BRSR format, during FY 23-24, We have
Presently, NTPC is in the process of finalizing the LCA of its product.
conducted 43 capacity building workshops through various Vendor Development Programs.
2. Does the entity have processes in place to avoid/ manage conflict of interests involving members of the Board? (Yes/No) 3. Percentage of recycled or reused input material to total material (by value) used in production (for manufacturing
If yes, provide details of the same. industry) or providing services (for service industry).
Yes, NTPC has a robust system in place to avoid/ manage conflict of interests involving members of the Board. Recycled or re-used input material to total material
FY 2023-24 FY 2022-23
PRINCIPLE 2 Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe.
(Current Financial Year) (Previous Financial Year)
Waste Water 25% 30%
Essential Indicators
1. Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the environmental
4. Of the products and packaging reclaimed at end of life of products, amount (in metric tons) reused, recycled, and
and social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by the entity, respectively.
safely disposed, as per the following format:
FY 2023-24 FY 2022-23 Details of Improvements in
FY 2023-24 FY 2022-23
(Current Financial Year) (Previous Financial Year) environmental and social impacts
(Current Financial Year) (Previous Financial Year)
R&D 100% 100% Green Hydrogen, CCU, etc.
Re-used Recycled Safely Re-used Recycled Safely
Capex 31% 21% FGD, RE, Hydro, Energy Conservation
Disposed Disposed
Plastics 70.0 95.38 286.91 0 53.15 164.96
2. a. Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing?
(including packaging)
No, sustainability is not a criterion for sourcing as of now. But almost all our procurement happens from big E-Waste 0 817.29 28.26 0 83.14 2.92
PSUs/ MNCs who are ESG compliant and disclose their sustainability performances in public domain.
Hazardous waste 1184.30 1039.21 1731.98 340.30 1705.49 1778.74
b. If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably?
Other Waste 13120.50 29009.23 87767.36 13091.34 39619.07 51092.22
Not Available
5. Reclaimed products and their packaging materials (as percentage of products sold) for each product category.
3. Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling, and disposing at the end of life,
There is no scope for reclaiming packaging materials in Energy generation and transmission business.
for (a) Plastics (including packaging) (b) E-waste (c) Hazardous waste and (d) other waste.
S. No. Type Reclaiming Process
PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their
1. Fly Ash Ash is being utilized to produce new products, and as a second
value chains
supplementary materials for cement industry, road and bricks
manufacturing. Essential Indicators
2. Used Lube Oil/Used Transformer Oil/ Sold to registered recyclers 1. a. Details of measures for the well-being of employees:
Containers of Hazardous Chemicals
% of employees covered by
3. Spent resin CPCB/SPCB-approved facilities or nearby co-processors
Health Insurance Accident Insurance Maternity Benefits Paternity Benefits Day care facilities
4. Used Batteries Sold to manufacturers under a buy-back policy
Total Number % Number % Number % Number % Number %
5. Bio-Medical Waste By approved agencies authorized by SPCB
(A) (B) (C/A) (C) (C/A) (D) (D/A) (E) (E/A) (F) (F/A)
6. E-Waste Via authorized recyclers/dismantlers endorsed by CPCB/SPCB
Permanent Employees
Male 12398 12398 100% 12398 100% 0 0 12398 100% 12398 100%
4. Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity's activities (Yes / No). If yes, whether the
waste collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted to Pollution Control Female 969 969 100% 969 100% 969 100% 0 0 969 100%
Boards? If not, provide steps taken to address the same. Total 13367 13367 100% 13367 100% 969 7.25% 12398 92.75% 13367 100%
EPR is applicable to only plastic packaging of imported items. Other than Permanent Employees
Male 2124 2124 100% 2124 100% 0 0 0 0 2124 100%
Leadership Indicators
Female 194 194 100% 194 100% 0 0 0 0 194 100%
1. Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) for any of its products (for manufacturing industry)
Total 2318 2318 100% 2318 100% 0 0 0 0 2318 100%
or for its services (for service industry)? If yes, provide details in the following format?
Presently, NTPC is in the process of finalizing the LCA of its product.
268 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 269
b. Details of measures for the well-being of workers: 5. Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental leave.
% of workers covered by Permanent employees Permanent workers
Health Insurance Accident Insurance Maternity Benefits Paternity Benefits Day care facilities Gender Return to Retention Return to Retention
work rate rate work rate rate
Total Number % Number % Number % Number % Number %
(A) (B) (C/A) (C) (C/A) (D) (D/A) (E) (E/A) (F) (F/A) Number of complaints received in relation to 0 NA 0 NA
Permanent Workers Male 100% 100% 100% 100%
Male 6053 6053 100% 6053 100% 0 0 6053 100% 6053 100% Female 100% 100% 100% 100%
Female 654 654 100% 654 100% 654 100% 0 0 654 100% Total 100% 100% 100% 100%
Total 6707 6707 100% 6707 100% 654 9.8% 6053 90% 6707 100%
6. Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of employees and worker?
Other than Permanent Workers
If yes, give details of the mechanism in brief.
Male 120143 120143 100% 120143 100% 0 0 0 0 0 0
Yes/No (If yes, then give details of the mechanism in brief)
Female 2399 2399 100% 2399 100% 0 0 0 0 0 0
Permanent Workers Yes, for addressing the grievances of employees, NTPC has a time bound
Total 122542 122542 100% 122542 100% 0 0 0 0 0 0
Grievance Redressal Mechanism for all employees at each project. The
Other than Permanent Workers Permanent
employee grievances are also captured through different forums like
c. Spending on measures towards well-being of employees and workers (including permanent and other than Employees
participative forums, communication meetings, employee organizational
permanent) in the following format - Other than Permanent Employees climate survey etc.
FY 2023-24 FY 2022-23
(Current Financial Year) (Previous Financial Year) 7. Membership of employees and worker in association(s) or Unions recognized by the listed entity:
Cost incurred on wellbeing measures as 3.65% 3.68% Category FY 2023-24 FY 2022-23
a % of total revenue of the company (Current Financial Year) (Previous Financial Year)
Total No. of % (B/A) Total No. of % (D/C)
2. Details of retirement benefits, for Current FY and Previous FY. employees/ employees/workers employees/ employees/workers
Benefits FY 2023-24 FY 2022-23 workers in in respective workers in in respective
(Current Financial Year) (Previous Financial Year) respective category, who are respective category, who are
category (A) part of associations(s) category (C) part of associations(s)
No. of employees No. of workers Deducted and No. of employees No. of workers Deducted and
or Union (B) or Union (D)
covered as a % of covered as deposited with covered as a % of covered as deposited with
total employees a % of total the authority total employees a % of total the authority Total Permanent 13367 8180 61.19% 12,997 6905 53.12%
workers (Y/N/N.A) workers (Y/N/N.A.) Employees
PF 100% 100% Y 100% 100% Y Male 12398 7712 62.20% 12074 6539 54.15%
Gratuity 100% 100% Y 100% 100% Y Female 969 468 48.30% 923 366 39.6%
ESI 100% 100% Y 100% 100% Y Total Permanent 6707 6707 100.00% 7,255 7,255 100%
Workers
Others-please specify 0 0 NA 0 0 0
Male 6053 6053 100.00% 6,549 6,549 100%
3. Accessibility of workplaces Female 654 654 100.00% 706 706 100%
Are the premises / offices of the entity accessible to differently abled employees and workers, as per the requirements
of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether any steps are being taken by the entity in this regard.
YES, all our offices are accessible to differently abled employees and workers, as per the requirements of the Rights of
Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016.
4. Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If so, provide
a web-link to the policy.
YES, our equal opportunity policy can be found at
https://www.ntpc.co.in/sites/default/files/policy-documents/Equal_Opportunity_Policy%202019.pdf
270 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 271
8. Details of training given to employees and workers: hazards followed in preparing this document is elimination of hazard, substitution of hazard, engineering controls,
administrative controls and PPEs in respective order.
Category FY 2023-24 FY 2022-23
(Current Financial Year) (Previous Financial Year) c. Whether you have processes for workers to report the work-related hazards and to remove themselves from such
risks.
On Health and On Skill On Health and On Skill
safety measures upgradation safety measures upgradation YES NTPC has launched app "Suraksha" for reporting work-related injuries and incidents. It is regularly updated for
Total (A) No. (B) % (B/ A) No. (C) % (C/A) Total (D) No. (E) % (E / D) No. (F) % (F / D) user experience and new features. Over 12,000 employees have downloaded and used this app, providing real-time
data for analysis and preventive actions.
Employees
d. Do the employees/ worker of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services?
Male 12398 3019 24.35% 263 2.12% 12,074 4,648 38.50% 9,661 80.01%
Female 969 182 18.78% 63 6.50% 923 318 34.45% 687 74.43% YES, NTPC prioritizes employee health, safety, and well-being through various measures. Our NTPC hospitals provide
round-the-clock medical care for employees and their dependents. We have partnerships with over 250 specialized
Total 13368 3201 23.95% 326 2.44% 12,997 4,966 38.21% 10,348 79.62%
hospitals in 25 cities for specialized treatments. Power plants are equipped with ambulances featuring Advanced
Workers Life Support systems for emergencies.
Male 6053 1514 25.01% 113 1.87% 6,549 1,471 22.46% 3,744 57.17%
11. Details of safety related incidents, in the following format: -
Female 654 151 23.09% 7 1.07% 706 137 19.41% 298 42.21%
Safety Incident/Number Category FY 2023-24 FY 2022-23
Total 6707 1665 24.82% 120 1.79% 7,255 1,608 22.16% 4,042 55.71%
(Current Financial Year) (Previous Financial Year)
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) Employees 0.073 0.141
9. Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and worker:
(per one million-person hours worked) Workers 0.086 0.067
Category FY 2023-24 FY 2022-23
(Current Financial Year) (Previous Financial Year) Total recordable work-related injuries Employees 5 11
Total (A) No. (B) % (B / A) Total (C) No. (D) % (D / C) Workers 33 30
Employees No. of fatalities Employees 0 1
Male 12398 12398 100% 12074 12074 100% Workers 5 4
Female 969 969 100% 923 923 100% High consequence work-related injury Employees 0 0
Total 13368 13368 100% 12,997 12,997 100% or ill-health (excluding fatalities) Workers 0 1
Workers
12. Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy workplace.
Male 6053 6053 100% 6,549 6,549 100%
The safety of our operations is regularly assessed through internal and external safety audits. Every year, internal safety
Female 654 654 100% 706 706 100%
audits are conducted by an inter station team of Safety Officers and External safety audits are carried out by reputed
Total 6707 6707 100% 7,255 7,255 100%
organizations as per statutory requirement for each Project/ Station. Apart from that, special audits are conducted from
time to time to assess adherence to laid out procedures and rules. NTPC has developed a pool of NOSA certified auditors,
10. Health and safety management system:
certified lead / internal auditors as per ISO 45001 for ensuring quality audit. In Financial Year 2022-23, we initiated an
a. Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by the entity? (Yes/ No). If additional expert safety audit for all NTPC stations for internal benchmarking purposes. This was completed for 37
yes, the coverage of such system? stations / projects of NTPC during 23-24. Before starting a job, a Job Safety Analysis (JSA) is performed to identify
hazards and mitigation measures. The area engineer or supervisor delivers toolbox talks to workers, highlighting safety
We have established a robust management system that covers all aspects of safety and compliance with legal,
points mentioned in the JSA. Periodic mass pep talks on general safety topics are conducted to create awareness and
regulatory, and safety requirements. Our safety framework and comprehensive safety manual provide guidance,
reinforce safety practices among workers.
instructions, policies, participative forums, checklists, statutory documents, and procedures to promote safe practices
in the workplace, including the operation of equipment, machinery, chemicals, and tools.
13. Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
We regularly assess the safety of our operations through internal and external safety audits. Internal safety audits
FY 2023-24 FY 2022-23
are conducted annually by a team of Safety Officers, while external audits are carried out by reputable organisations
(Current Financial Year) (Previous Financial Year)
as per statutory requirements. We also conduct special audits to assess adherence to procedures and rules. NTPC
has a pool of certified auditors, including National Occupational Safety Association (NOSA) certified auditors and Filed during Pending Remarks Filed during Pending Remarks
ISO 45001 certified lead/internal auditors, ensuring quality audits. In Financial Year 2022-23, we initiated an additional the year resolution the year resolution
expert safety audit for all NTPC stations for internal benchmarking purposes. at the end at the end
of year of year
b. What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-routine basis by
Working Conditions 0 0 NA 0 0 NA
the entity?
Health & Safety 0 0 NA 0 0 NA
In accordance with our safety principles, we have developed a comprehensive and centralized Hazard Identification,
Risk Assessment and Control (HIRAC) document for our Coal, Gas, and Hydro stations. The hierarchy of controls of
272 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 273
14. Assessments for the year: 3. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from
assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain partners.
% of your plants and offices that were assessed
(by entity or statutory authorities or third parties) Appropriate action has been taken against the contractors/ agencies who have been found guilty in cases of safety
violations as per the policy.
Health and safety practices 100%
Working Conditions 100%
PRINCIPLE 4: Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its stakeholders
*All our offices are OHSHA/ ISO certified
Essential Indicators
15. Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and on significant
1. Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity.
risks / concerns arising from assessments of health & safety practices and working conditions.
Stakeholder engagement is a continuous process, encompassing interactions at various management levels and through
NTPC regularly monitor and engage to improve its working condition, and has developed centralized Hazard Identification,
diverse communication channels. To ensure the identification of key stakeholders, the NTPC has devised a detailed
Risk Assessment, and Control (HIRAC) documents for its stations.
stakeholder engagement framework, as well as undertake stakeholder and materiality assessment exercise at a regular
frequency. Our detailed methodology for stakeholder identification can be found at
Leadership Indicators
https://www.ntpc.co.in/sustainability/stakeholder-management.
1. Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of death of
2. List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each stakeholder
(A) Employees: Yes
group.
(B) Workers: Yes
Stakeholder Whether Channel of Communication Frequency of engagement Purpose and scope of engagement
group identified as (Email, SMS, Newspaper, (Annually/ Half yearly/ including key topics and concerns
2. Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted and deposited by
Vulnerable & Pamphlets, Advertisement, Quarterly/ other-please raised during such engagement
the value chain partners.
Marginalized Community meetings, specify)
We collect TDS from all our vendors to ensure the submission of the applicable taxes. In addition to this we also have Group Notice board, website, others)
clauses in our GCC to ensure that all the statutory dues and fines are collected as applicable. (Yes/no)
Government No • Secretary level review • Quarterly • 24x7 affordable power to all
3. Provide the number of employees / workers having suffered high consequence work- related injury / ill-health /
of India • Meeting with MoP, MoEFCC, • Need based • Maximizing infrastructure
fatalities (as reported in Q11 of Essential Indicators above), who have been rehabilitated and placed in suitable MoC, DPE, Parliamentary utilization
employment or whose family members have been placed in suitable employment: committees, CEA, NITI AAYOG • Social development
etc.
Total no. of affected employees/ workers No. of employees/workers that are rehabilitated • Climate Change & Environment
and placed in suitable employment or whose family conservation
members have been placed in suitable employment • Promote Govt. schemes (viz.
Make in India, Skill India,
FY 2023-24 FY 2022-23 FY 2023-24 FY 2022-23
Swachh Bharat Mission, etc.)
(Current Financial Year) (Previous Financial Year) (Current Financial Year) (Previous Financial Year)
Regulators No • Public hearing • Need based • Optimum electricity tariff
Employees 0 1 0 0
• Statutory audits & inspection, • As per statutory • Compliance with changing
Workers 5 5 5 5 Meeting for clearances, provisions business environment
Consents and compliances
1. Does the entity provide transition assistance programs to facilitate continued employability and the management of Communities Yes • Public hearings • Need based • Infrastructure development
career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment? (Yes/ No) & NGO • Village Development Advisory • Annually • Quality of life
Committee (VDAC) • Employment opportunities
YES, for more details refer to human capital chapter at page 84.
• Public information centers • Land acquisition and R&R issues
2. Details on assessment of value chain partners: • Project-based stakeholder • Increased community
meets involvement
% of value chain partners (by value of business
Investors & No • Analyst and investors meeting • Quarterly • Improving Return on Investment
done with such partners) that were assessed
Lenders • Annual general meeting • Annual • Responses to Climate change &
Health and safety practices 100% • Review meets with bankers • Regular Business sustainability
Working Conditions 100% (Domestic and Foreign • Risk and governance
compliance
* We have sustainability sourcing policies as well as sections in our GCC to ensure all our suppliers have relevant ISO and
• Increased disclosure on
OHSAS certification
Environment, Social and
Governance (ESG) aspects
274 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 275
3. Provide details of instances of engagement with, and actions taken to, address the concerns of vulnerable/ marginalized
Stakeholder Whether Channel of Communication Frequency of engagement Purpose and scope of engagement
group identified as (Email, SMS, Newspaper, (Annually/ Half yearly/ including key topics and concerns stakeholder groups.
Vulnerable & Pamphlets, Advertisement, Quarterly/ other-please raised during such engagement
The details can be found on our website at https://www.ntpc.co.in/sustainability/stakeholder-management.
Marginalized Community meetings, specify)
Group Notice board, website, others)
(Yes/no) PRINCIPLE 5 Businesses should respect and promote human rights
Employees No • Participative forums • Defined frequency • Professional growth Essential Indicators
• Communication meetings of concerned Fora • Work life balance
1. Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies) of the entity, in the
• Employee surveys • Need based • Health, safety and security
following format:
• Intranet and website • Timely resolution of grievances
Category FY 2023-24 FY 2022-23
• Trainings and workshops • Transparent appraisal and
Internal magazines promotion cycle (Current Financial Year) (Previous Financial Year)
Customers No • Regional customer meets • Quarterly • Resolving commercial issues Total (A) No. of % (B/A) Total (C) No. of % (D/C)
• Regional power committees • Monthly • Resolving technical issues employees/ employees/
(RPCs) • Yearly workers workers
• Commercial meetings/ • Need Based covered (B) covered (D)
interactions Employees
• Technical coordination
Permanent 13367 923 6.91% 12,997 283 2.17%
committee
Other than Permanent 2318 240 10.35% 1,493 40 2.68%
• Operation coordination
committee Total Employees 15685 1163 7.41% 14,490 323 2.23%
• Business partner meet
Workers
• Customer support services
Permanent 6707 442 6.59% 7,255 298 4.11%
Suppliers Yes, some of • Pre-bid conference • Before tendering • Transparent dealings
Other than Permanent 122542 0 0.00% 1,13,355 0 0
companies • Suppliers meet, Vendor • Need based • Timely payments
suppliers belong enlisting • Fair opportunities Total Workers 129249 442 0.37% 1,20,610 298 0.25%
to marginalized • NTPC website • Sustainable Supply Chain
group 2. Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers, in the following format:
Media No • Press releases • Need based • Information sharing
Category FY 2023-24 FY 2022-23
• Press conferences • Event based • Increased transparency (Current Financial Year) (Previous Financial Year)
Equal to More than Equal to More than
Leadership Indicators
Minimum Wage Minimum Wage Minimum Wage Minimum Wage
1. Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental, and social Total (A) No. (B) % (B/ A) No. (C) % (C/A) Total (D) No. (E) % (E / D) No. (F) % (F / D)
topics or if consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such consultations provided to the Board.
Employees
Yes, we have the Board level Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Committee along with Risk Management
Permanent 13367 0 0% 13367 100% 12,997 0 0% 12,997 100%
Committee. In addition, we also have a management level committee, named ESG and Climate Change Committee that
Male 12398 0 0% 12398 100% 12074 0 0% 12074 100%
operate under the Director (Operations). The concerned committees meet regularly with CSO and take reviews of all
ESG related issues. Female 969 0 0% 969 100% 923 0 0% 923 100%
Other than Permanent 2318 0 0% 2318 100% 1,493 0 0% 1,493 100%
2. Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the identification and management of environmental, and social
Male 2124 0 0% 2124 100% 1,350 0 0% 1,350 100%
topics (Yes / No). If so, provide details of instances as to how the inputs received from stakeholders on these topics
were incorporated into policies and activities of the entity. Female 194 0 0% 194 100% 143 0 0% 143 100%
Workers
NTPC recognizes the importance of conducting stakeholder consultation and hence do materiality assessment, which
form a core component of our Integrated Annual Report and enable us to gain understanding of the relative importance Permanent 6707 0 0% 6707 100% 7,255 0 0% 7,255 100%
of specific environmental, social, and economic issues and their potential impact on value creation. We have adopted a
Male 6053 0 0% 6053 100% 6,549 0 0% 6,549 100%
structured methodology for conducting stakeholder consultation assessment using a dedicated materiality survey at a
Female 654 0 0% 654 100% 706 0 0% 702 100%
regular interval (3 to 4 years), in which we engage both internal and external stakeholders. the details of which can be
found at https://ntpc.co.in/sustainability/materiality-analysis Other than Permanent 122542 0 0% 122542 100% 113355 0 0% 113355 100%
Male 120143 0 0% 120143 100% 111457 0 0% 111457 100%
Female 2399 0 0% 2399 100% 1898 0 0% 1898 100%
276 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 277
3. Details of remuneration/salary/wages, in the following format: 7. Complaints filed under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act,
2013, in the following format:
a. Median remuneration / wages:
FY 2023-24 FY 2022-23
Male Female
(Current Financial Year) (Previous Financial Year)
Number Median Number Median
Total complaints reported under Sexual 1 4
Remuneration/ Remuneration/
harassment on of women at workplace
salary/wages salary/wages
(prevention, prohibition and redressal)
of respective of respective
act, 2013 (posh)
category category
Complaints on posh as a % of Female 0.06% (Considering female 0.30 % (considering female
Board of Directors (BoD)* 6 9638945 - -
employees / workers employees as on 31.03.2024) employees as on 31.03.2023)
Key Managerial Personnel 7 9638945 1 1746606
Complaints on posh upheld 2 3
Employees other than BoD and KMP 10598 4260958 824 3774683
Workers 4541 2126181 390 2297011
8. Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases.
*Only functional directors)
NTPC has formed the Internal Complaints Committees at our operational locations where complaints against sexual
harassment can be registered, furthermore we have a dedicated complaint handling policy to safeguard the complainant.
b. Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages paid by the entity, in the following format:
The link to our policy can be found at https://www.ntpc.co.in/sites/default/files/policy-documents/Complaint-Handling-
FY 2023-24 FY 2022-23
Policy.pdf
(Current Financial Year) (Previous Financial Year)
Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages 6.60% 6.55 9. Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts?
*NTPC Standalone YES
4. Do you have a focal point (Individual/ Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or issues caused 10. Assessments for the year:
or contributed to by the business?
% of your plants and offices that were assessed
Yes, the Director (HR) is responsible for addressing human rights impacts or issues caused or contributed to by the (by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
business.
Child Labour 100%
5. Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues. Forced/Involuntary Labour 100%
We have established institutional mechanisms for grievance redressal, demonstrating our commitment to resolving Sexual Harassment 100%
stakeholder concerns in a timely and fair manner. To safeguard human rights, all significant investment agreements and Discrimination at workplace 100%
contracts include clauses that minimize the risk of violations. We conduct regular monitoring to ensure compliance with
Wages 100%
regulations and internal policies.
Other-Please specify 100%
6. Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
FY 2023-24 FY 2022-23 11. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from the
(Current Financial Year) (Previous Financial Year) assessments at Question 9 above.
Filed during Pending Remarks Filed during Pending Remarks Appropriate action has been taken against the contractors/ agencies who have been found guilty in such cases.
the year resolution the year resolution
Leadership Indicators
at the end at the end
of year of year 1. Details of a business process being modified / introduced as a result of addressing human rights grievances/complaints.
Sexual Harassment 1 0 1 case pertaining 4 1 NTPC has implemented an in-house solution called 'Contractors' Labour Information Management System (CLIMS). This
to FY 2022-23 system has been implemented to streamline labour management processes, ensure the physical and social welfare of
was resolved in workers, comply with statutory requirements, and provide real-time information on the availability of workers. The
FY 2023-24. system digitizes record-keeping, guaranteeing accurate disbursement of wages and other benefits to labourers deployed
Discrimination at 0 0 0 0 at your Company's plants.
workplace
2. Details of the scope and coverage of any Human rights due diligence conducted.
Child Labour 0 0 0 0
Forced Labour/ 0 0 0 0 100%
Involuntary Labour
3. Is the premise/office of the entity accessible to differently abled visitors, as per the requirements of the Rights of
Wages 0 0 0 0
Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016?
Other human rights
related issues YES
278 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 279
4. Details on assessment of value chain partners: 2. Does the entity have any sites / facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance, Achieve
and Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y/N) If yes, disclose whether targets set under the PAT scheme
% of value chain partners (by value of business
have been achieved. In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial action taken, if any.
done with such partners) that were assessments
Most of our stations have successfully met their PAT targets, and by the end of PAT cycle III, NTPC had a net surplus of
Child Labour 100%
228,725 ESCerts. Additionally, two NTPC stations under PAT cycles IV and V have earned ESCerts, though the official
Forced/Involuntary Labour 100%
notification is still awaited.
Sexual Harassment 100%
To achieve PAT targets, our stations implement various schemes and adopt best O&M practices aimed at improving the
Discrimination at workplace 100%
Net Heat Rate. These efforts, detailed under the "Energy Conservation" section, reflect our commitment to energy
Wages 100% efficiency and sustainable operations.
Other-Please specify 100%
3. Provide details of the following disclosures related to water, in the following format:
* All the NTPC's vendor adheres to the Human rights policy which is covered under its GCC
Parameter FY 2023-24 FY 2022-23
(Current (Previous
5. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from the
Financial Year) Financial Year)
assessments at Question 4 above.
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
No action was taken since no significant risk/ concern was identified.
(i) Surface water 6015033779 5478260000
PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment (ii) Groundwater 359086*
(iii) Third party water 455000 550000
Essential Indicators
(iv) Seawater / desalinated water 168757000 179100000
1. Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or multiples) and energy intensity, in the following format:
(v) Rainwater 5850000 41,00,000
Parameter FY 2023-24 FY 2022-23
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres) (i + ii + iii + iv + v) 6190454865 5662010000
(Current (Previous
Financial Financial Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres) 1132753015 1073790000
Year) (TJ) Year) (TJ) Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Water consumed / turnover) (Ltr/Rs) 0.625 0.603
From Renewable Sources Water intensity (optional) - the relevant metric may be selected by the entity 2.68 2.69
Total Electricity Consumption (A) 82.6 97 (Ltr/Kwh)
Total Fuel Consumption (B) 2317.92 246.7 *Water Used by NEEPCO (Subsidiary) of NTPC.
Energy Consumption Through Other Sources (C) - - Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If
Total Energy Consumed From Renewable Sources (A+B+C) 2400.52 343.7 yes, name of the external agency., Yes assurance has been carried out by M/S BUREAU VERITAS.
From Non-Renewable Sources
4. Provide the following details related to water discharged:
Total Electricity Consumption (D) 376.1 352.11
Parameter FY 2023-24 FY 2022-23
Total Fuel Consumption (E) 3939364.49 3742448.77
(Current (Previous
Energy Consumption Through Other Sources (F) - - Financial Year) Financial Year)
Total Energy Consumed From Non Renewable Sources (D+E+F) 3939740.6 3742800.9 Water Discharge by Destination and Level of Treatment (In Kilolitres)
Total Energy Consumed (A+B+C+D+E+F) 3942141.11 3743144.58 (I) To Surface Water
Energy Intensity Per Rupee of Turnover 2176 2103 - No Treatment 4889288342 4410800000
(Total Energy Consumed / Revenue From Operations) (KJ/Rs.)
- With Treatment - Primary & secondary treatment 512441 914400
Energy Intensity Per Rupee Of Turnover Adjusted For Purchasing 49786 48120
(Ii) To Groundwater 0.00 0.00
Power Parity (PPP)(Total Energy Consumed / Revenue From
- No Treatment
Operations Adjusted For PPP) (KJ/USD)
- With Treatment - Please Specify Level of Treatment
Energy Intensity In Terms Of Physical Output (MJ/kWh) 9.97 10.01
(Iii) To Seawater
Energy Intensity (Optional) - The Relevant Metric May Be Selected
By The Entity - No Treatment 155256459.9 117340000
- With Treatment - Please Specify Level Of Treatment 0 0
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If
yes, name of the external agency. Yes assurance has been carried out by M/S BUREAU VERITAS.
280 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 281
Parameter FY 2023-24 FY 2022-23 Parameter Unit FY 2023-24 FY 2022-23
(Current (Previous (Current (Previous
Financial Year) Financial Year) Financial Year) Financial Year)
(Iv) Sent To Third-Parties Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity in gCO2/Kwh 834.81 840.75
terms of physical output
- No Treatment
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity
- With Treatment - Please Specify Level Of Treatment
(optional) - the relevant metric may be
(V) Others
selected by the entity
- No Treatment
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If
- With Treatment - Please Specify Level Of Treatment yes, name of the external agency: Yes, assurance has been carried out by Bureau Veritas.
Total water discharged (in kilolitres) 5045057242.9 4529054400
8. Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? If yes, then provide details.
5. Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of its coverage and Yes, we embrace our ethical duty to support the country's endeavors in reducing GHG emissions and mitigating climate
implementation. change. We have adopted cleaner, more energy-efficient technologies to reduce GHG emissions per unit of electricity.
We're transitioning from sub-critical to supercritical and ultra-supercritical technology. NTPC is an early adopter of
YES, we have implemented Zero Liquid Discharge (ZLD) across all our stations except few JVs companies plants.
supercritical and ultra-supercritical boilers in India, saving ~2% fuel per unit of power and reducing emission intensity by
8% compared to conventional subcritical plants. It also increases efficiency by around 8%.
6. Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity, in the following format:
In addition to this, we are also exploring cleaner energy avenues and are looking to increase the over RE percentage in
Parameter Please specify unit FY 2023-24 FY 2022-23
our energy mix. We are also working carbon sink development, and has planted 39 million trees so far, with the target of
(Current (Previous
planting at least 1 million tree saplings annually.
Financial Year) Financial Year)
NOx Metric tonnes 671807.38 657376.38
9. Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following format:
SOx Metric tonnes 1863639.27 1767481.60
Parameter FY 2023-24 FY 2022-23
Particulate matter (PM) Metric tonnes 96752.02 89294.96 (Current (Previous
Persistent organic pollutants (POP) Metric tonnes 0 0 Financial Year) Financial Year)
Volatile organic compounds (VOC) Metric tonnes 0 0 Total Waste generated (in metric tonnes)
Hazardous air pollutants (HAP) (Mercury) Metric tonnes 8.53 7.00 Plastic waste (A) 385.79 353.43
Others - Metric tonnes 0 0 E-waste (B) 873.4 84.88
Bio-medical waste (C) 211.1 138.44
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If
Construction and demolition waste (D) 90439.46 61052.50
yes, name of the external agency. Yes assurance is being carried out by KPMG
Battery waste (E) 1658.0 887.28
7. Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & its intensity, in the following format:
Radioactive waste (F) 0 0
Parameter Unit FY 2023-24 FY 2022-23 Other Hazardous waste. Please specify, if any (spent resin, 4382.9 4832.2435
(Current (Previous used lube oil, containers of hazardous waste, insulation
Financial Year) Financial Year) waste, FO sludge). (G)
Total Scope 1 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into Million Metric tonnes 352.47 335.72 Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H). Please specify, 41044.71 42029.83
CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available) of CO2 equivalent if any.(ferrous, non-ferrous, municipal solid waste-
biodegradable, municipal solid waste - non degradable)
Total Scope 2 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into Million Metric tonnes 0.07 0.07
(Break-up by composition i.e. by materials relevant to the sector)
CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available) of CO2 equivalent
Total (A+B + C + D + E + F + G + H) 138995.33 109378.60
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions per rupee Tonnes/Rs 0.000188722 0.000194654
of Turnover (Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through recycling, re-using or other recovery operations (in
emissions / Revenue from operations) metric tonnes)
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity per Tonnes/USD 0.000688157 0.000709791 Category of waste
rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Hazardous Waste
Parity (PPP) (Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG
(i) Recycled 1034.93 1703.3995
emissions / Revenue from operations adjusted
(ii) Re-used 1184.30 340.3
for PPP)
(iii) Other recovery operations 4.28 2.1
Total 2223.51 2045.80
282 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 283
Parameter FY 2023-24 FY 2022-23 11. If the entity has operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife sanctuaries,
(Current (Previous biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) where environmental
Financial Year) Financial Year) approvals / clearances are required, please specify details in the following format:
Non-Hazardous Waste S. Location of Type of Whether the conditions of environmental approval/clearance are being
No. operations/offices operations complied with? (Y/N) If no, the reasons thereof and corrective action
(i) Recycled 26868.85 39565.71
taken, if any.
(ii) Re-used 344.26 238.84
1. Bongaigaon Power Generator Conditions of EC are compiled. However, some of the components of projects
(iii) Other recovery operations 1229.49 372.14
(Ash Dyke) has come within the eco sensitive zone of the nearby Chakrashila
Total 28442.59 40176.69 Wildlife Sanctuary notified later. The approval wildlife clearance for the same
Other Waste is under process in MOEF&CC.
(i) Recycled 1025.49 186.07 2. Kahalgaon Power Generator Conditions of EC are compiled. However, in view of the declaration of
Vikramshila Wildlife Sanctuary after commissioning of Stage - I and changes
(ii) Re-used 12846.24 12852.5
in regulations afterward, wildlife clearance to required and the same in under
(iii) Other recovery operations 798.07 3.67 process.
Total 14669.80 13042.24 3. Tapovan Vishnugad Under Combined Conditions of EC are compiled. The project and its components are outside
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of disposal method (in metric tonnes) eco sensitive zone of Nanda Devi Biosphere Reserve. Hence wildlife clearance
is not required.
Category of waste
4. Korba Power Generator Conditions of EC are compiled. However, the EC for additional ash dyke (yet
Hazardous Waste
to be completed) stipulates the requirement of wildlife clearance which is
(i) Incineration 180.25 39.843
being obtained. The Clearance shall be obtained before construction of
(ii) Landfilling 1392.13 1725.04 additional dyke.
(iii) Other disposal operations 159.59 13.775 5. Koldam Power Generator Yes, all the Clarence has been obtained & being complied.
Total 1731.98 1778.66 7 Firoze Gandhi Unchahar Power Generation Yes, All the Clearances have been obtained and conditions are being complied.
Non-Hazardous Waste Thermal Power Plant The project is located in Raebarelli district of U.P. beyond the Eco-sensitive
Zone of Samaspur Bird Sanctuary.
(i) Incineration 105.32 429.12
(ii) Landfilling 3570.38 2606.89
12. Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the
(iii) Other disposal operations 7593.25 184.97
current financial year:
Total 11268.95 3220.98
Yes, EIA assessment details for Financial Year 2023-24 are as follows.
Other Waste
Name and brief EIA Notification Date Whether conducted Results Relevant Web
(i) Incineration 205.03 129.66
details of project No. by independent communicated link
(ii) Landfilling 56157.61 47904.3 External agency in public domain
(iii) Other disposal operations 20450.94 4.98 (Yes / No) (Yes / No)
Total 76813.58 48038.94 Lara STPP Stage-II S.O.1533(E) 14.09.2006 Yes Yes Website of SPCB
(2x800MW) & MoEF&CC
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If
Sipat STPP Stage-III S.O.1533(E) 14.09.2006 Yes Yes Website of SPCB
yes, name of the external agency.
(1x800MW) & MoEF&CC
10. Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy adopted by Darlipalli STPP Stage -II S.O.1533(E) 14.09.2006 Yes Yes Website of SPCB
your company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes and the practices (1x800MW)
adopted to manage such wastes. Meja STPP Stage-II S.O.1533(E) 14.09.2006 Yes Yes Website of SPCB
We are dedicated to handling and disposing of all waste generated on our premises in an environmentally friendly, (3x800MW)
socially responsible, and commercially viable manner. Our comprehensive waste management approach includes Telangana STPP Phase -II S.O.1533(E) 14.09.2006 Yes No NA. Yet to be
collection, segregation, transportation, processing, recycling, and disposal of different types of waste. Our primary goal (3x800MW) published
is to maximize resource utilization, minimizing the waste that must be disposed of. However, when disposal is necessary,
Nabinagar STPP Stage -II S.O.1533(E) 14.09.2006 Yes No NA. Yet to be
we ensure full compliance with rules and regulatory requirements. Managing hazardous and non-hazardous waste
(3x800MW) published
generated by our power plants is governed by regulations and NTPC Waste Management Guideline. Furthermore, we
have successfully eliminated Polychlorinated Biphenyl (PCBs) from our operation in an effort to reduce hazardous waste Gadarwara STPP Stage-II S.O.1533(E) 14.09.2006 Yes No NA. Yet to be
generation. (2x800MW) published
284 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 285
13. Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India, such as the Water 2. Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions & its intensity, in the following format:
(Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Environment protection act
Parameter Unit FY 2023-24 FY 2022-23
and rules thereunder (Y/N). If not, provide details of all such non-compliances, in the following format:
(Current (Previous
Yes, NTPC is compliant with the applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India. Financial Year) Financial Year)
Total Scope 3 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into Metric tonnes of CO2 3266221.74 4359388.78
Leadership Indicators
CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available) equivalent
1. Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in areas of water stress (in kilolitres):
Total Scope 3 emissions per rupee of turnover Metric tonnes of CO2/ (`) 0 0
For each facility / plant located in areas of water stress, provide the following information:
Total Scope 3 emission intensity (optional) - the gCO2/kWh 7.74 10.97
(i) Name of the area: Barauni, Barh, Bongaigaon, Gadarwara, Kahalgaon, Korba, Kudgi, Mouda, Ramagundam, Solapur, relevant metric may be selected by the entity
Talcher Super Thermal, Tanda, Vindhayachal, NCPS- Dadri Coal & Gas, Lara, Auraiya, Faridabad, Kawas, RG CCCP,
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If
Kayamkulam, Jhanor Gandhar, Khargone, BRBCL, Nabinagar, Kanti, Jhajjar, NSPCL-Durgapur, NSPCL-Rourkela, Meja,
yes, name of the external agency.
North Karanpura, Telangana, Jhabua Power Limited, NSPCL-Bhilai, AGBPP, AGTCCPP, TGBPP
Yes, assurance has been conducted by Bureau Veritas.
(ii) Nature of operations: Power Generation
1. With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 10 of Essential Indicators above, provide details
(iii) Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in the following format:
of significant direct & indirect impact of the entity on biodiversity in such areas along-with prevention and remediation
Parameter FY 2023-24 FY 2022-23 activities.
(Current (Previous
All the power projects of NTPC have been provided with pollution control and environmental management system.
Financial Year) Financial Year)
Further, the activities of the projects have no direct interfaces with these areas. Hence, the impacts on biodiversity of
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres) such areas is insignificant.
(i) Surface water 5924938658 5570362775
2. If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions to improve resource
(ii) Groundwater 359086
efficiency, or reduce impact due to emissions / effluent discharge / waste generated, please provide details of the
(iii) Third party water 455000 550000
same as well as outcome of such initiatives, as per the following format:
(iv) Seawater 168757000 179101800
Information on this topic can be found in the Integrated Annual Report under Natural Capital, or on the NTPC website.
(v) Rain Water 4130017 3351358
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres) 6098280676 5753365933 3. Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan? Give details in 100 words/ web link.
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres) 1043186029 987040310.1 Our corporate plan 2032 is our business continuity plan. Same can be referred from the below link:
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Water consumed / turnover) 0.58 0.54 https://ntpc.co.in/diversified-growth
Water intensity (optional) - the relevant metric may be selected by the entity - All NTPC plants have respective Disaster Management plan in place. Also, the NTPC Disaster Management Cell formulates
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres) policies and action plans, collaborating with regional offices and stations.
(i) Into Surface water
4. Disclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain of the entity. What mitigation
- No treatment 4889800783 4410800000
or adaptation measures have been taken by the entity in this regard.
- With treatment - Primary & secondary treatment 512441 914400
NTPC recognizes the potential for significant adverse environmental impacts arising from its value chain, particularly in
(ii) Into Groundwater 0
areas such as emissions, waste management, and resource consumption. To mitigate these impacts, NTPC has implemented
- No treatment 0 - a comprehensive environmental management system that includes rigorous monitoring and reporting of emissions,
- With treatment - please specify level of treatment 0 - adoption of cleaner technologies, and promotion of sustainable practices among its suppliers and contractors. Specific
measures include the use of high-efficiency equipment to reduce emissions, waste recycling programs, and the
(iii) Into Seawater
enforcement of stringent environmental standards for all value chain partners. Additionally, NTPC is actively investing in
- No treatment 155256459.9 117340000
renewable energy projects and energy efficiency initiatives to reduce its overall carbon footprint. Through these efforts,
- With treatment - please specify level of treatment 0 0 NTPC is committed to minimizing its environmental impact and fostering sustainability across its value chain.
(iv) Sent to third-parties 0
5. Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed for environmental
- No treatment 0 -
impacts.
- With treatment - please specify level of treatment 0 -
0 %.
(v) Others
- No treatment -
- With treatment - please specify level of treatment -
Total water discharged (in kilolitres) 5045057243.29 4529054400
286 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 287
PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a manner PRINCIPLE 8 Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development.
that is responsible and transparent
Essential Indicators
Essential Indicators
1. Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the
1. a. Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/ associations. current financial year.
25 No SIA done during 2023-24 Final Year, as there is land acquisition done by District administration for NTPC project.
b. List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/ associations (determined based on the total members of such body)
2. Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being undertaken by
the entity is a member of/ affiliated to.
your entity, in the following format:
S. Name of the trade and industry chambers/associations Reach of trade and industry chambers/
S. Name of Project for which State District No. of Project % of PAFs Amounts paid
No. associations (State/National)
No. R&R is ongoing Affected Families covered by to PAFs in the
1. INSTITUTE OF INTERNAL AUDITORS National (PAFs) R&R / paid FY (In `````)
2. WORLD ENERGY COUNCIL National
1 NTPC Lara, Raigarh, Chhattisgarh Chhatisgarh Raigarh 2449 100% / 100% 0.00
3. CONFERATION OF INDIAN INDUSTRY National
17 100% / 100% 0.00
4. DELHI PRODUCTIVITY COUNCIL National
2 NTPC North Karanpura Jharkand Chatra 2963 100% /94.6% 12,65,19,584.00
5. QUALITY COUNCIL OF INDIA National
2963 100%/ 41%
6. NATIONAL SAFETY COUNCIL National
3 Nabinagar STPP Bihar Aurangabad 3000 100% / 51.16% 4,50,00,000.00
7. INDIAN CHAMBER OF COMMERCE National
4 Rammam Hydro Power Project West Bengal Darjeeling 363 100% / 100% 0.00
8. STANDING CONFERENCE OF PUBLIC ENTERPRISE National
5 Tanda STTPP Uttar Pradesh Ambedkar Nagar 1143 100% / 83.38% 4,85,00,000.00
9. WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM National
1238 100% / 68.90%
10. S&P GLOBAL INC National
6 Khargone Madhya Pradesh Khargone 1575 100% / 100% 0.00
S. Name of Project for which State District No. of Project % of PAFs Amounts paid
2. Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anti- competitive conduct by the
No. R&R is ongoing Affected Families covered by to PAFs in the
entity, based on adverse orders from regulatory authorities.
(PAFs) R&R / paid FY (In INR)
No action taken as there was no case of issues related to anti- competitive during the Financial Year 2023-24.
7 Kanti Bihar Mujaffarpur 288 100 % / 100% 0.00
Leadership Indicators 174 100 % / 83% 0.00
1. Details of public policy positions advocated by the entity: 8 Darlipali STPP Odisha Sundargarh 397 100% / 100% 0.00
Not applicable.
2. Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community.
In order to facilitate resolution of grievances in transparent and time bound manner NTPC has developed an interactive
grievance redressal mechanism which can be accessed through our website at https://www.ntpc.co.in/grievance In
addition to this, a Grievance Redressal Officer is also nominated for at all Projects/ stations/ Regions, Further grievances
are also received through RTI, which are answered in a time-bound manner.
288 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 289
3. Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers: 3. (a) Do you have a preferential procurement policy where you give preference to purchase from suppliers comprising
marginalized /vulnerable groups? (Yes/No)
FY 2023-24 FY 2022-23
(Current Financial Year) (Previous Financial Year) Yes, NTPC is governed by The Government of India's Public Procurement
Directly sourced from MSMEs/small producers 51.64 40.06 As per the Public Procurement Policy for MSEs Amendment Order dated November 9, 2018, every Central Ministry,
Sourced directly from within the district and <1% <1% Department, and PSU is required to set an annual target of 25% procurement from the MSE sector. Within this
neighboring districts target, 4% should be earmarked for procurement from MSEs owned by SC/ST individuals and 3% for those owned by
women. However, according to a letter from the DC (MSME) dated August 31, 2021, NTPC's target has been revised
to a minimum of 40% procurement from MSE vendors, considering the exemptions.
4. Job creation in smaller towns - Disclose wages paid to persons employed (including employees or workers employed
on a permanent or non-permanent / on contract basis) in the following locations, as % of total wage cost* (b) From which marginalized /vulnerable groups do you procure?
Location FY 2023-24 FY 2022-23 NTPC has procurement targets for marginalized communities of 4% from MSEs owned by Scheduled Castes or the
(Current Financial Year) (Previous Financial Year) Scheduled Tribes and 3% owned by Women entrepreneurs for the Goods and Services procured.
Rural 45.27 45.50 (c) What percentage of total procurement (by value) does it constitute?
Semi-urban 5.07 5.55 MSME: 51.64%, SC/ST: 0.17%, Women entrepreneurs: 0.34%
Urban 42.41 41.47
4. Details of the benefits derived and shared from the intellectual properties owned or acquired by your entity (in the
Metropolitan 7.25 7.49
current financial year), based on traditional knowledge:
*NTPC standalone
Data consolidation is still in progress.
Leadership Indicators 5. Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based on any adverse order in intellectual property related disputes
wherein usage of traditional knowledge is involved.
1. Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the Social Impact Assessments
(Reference: Question 1 of Essential Indicators above): No action was taken since there was no adverse order in intellectual property related disputes wherein usage of traditional
knowledge is involved.
No SIA done during 2023-24 Final Year, as there is land acquisition done by District administration for NTPC project.
6. Details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects:
2. Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated aspirational districts as
identified by government bodies: - S. CSR Project No. of persons benefitted % of beneficiaries
No. from CSR Projects from vulnerable and
S. State Aspirational District Amount spent
No. (In `````) marginalized groups
1 Health 563946 ~ 62.96%
1 Andhra Pradesh Vishakhapatnam 239533
2 Education 77805 ~ 100.00%
2 Andhra Pradesh Vizianagaram 9550826
3 Sanitation 417361 ~ 90.22%
3 Bihar Aurangabad 39321073
4 Water 111604 ~ 62.99%
4 Bihar Muzaffarpur 3902092
5 Rural Development 227356 ~ 62.96%
5 Chhattisgarh Korba 64186567
6 Vocational Training & Women Empowerment 113561 ~ 97.77%
6 Jharkhand Chatra 782823
7 PCP, Art & Culture, Sports & Others 117616 ~ 64.12%
7 Jharkhand Godda 626503
Grand Total 1629249
8 Jharkhand Hazaribagh 1501414
9 Jharkhand Ranchi 8003511 * NTPC's CSR interventions are primarily focused on the communities in the vicinity of its stations and projects, aiming to
improve the quality of life for local residents. The majority of beneficiaries are underprivileged, marginalized, vulnerable,
10 Jharkhand Sahibganj 7302576
and belong to backward sections of society. These figures are based on the CSR activities where beneficiary categorization is
11 Madhya Pradesh Mahasamund 8000000
available or derived from secondary sources such as publicly available information
12 Madhya Pradesh Singrauli 55551757
PRINCIPLE 9 Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner
13 Odisha Kalahandi 4864785
14 Rajasthan Baran 6492562 Essential Indicators
15 Uttar Pradesh Siddharthnagar 2646000 1. Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback.
16 Uttar Pradesh Sonbhadra 59833369 We have an elaborate system of Customer Relationship Management (CRM), through which we reach out to our customers
to collect their valuable feedback/ experiences/ expectations using regular structured interactions including support
290 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 291
services and training. In addition to this, we also have a grievance portal on our website, through which customers can 7. Provide the following information relating to data breaches:
share their grievances. The link for the same is https://www.ntpc.co.in/grievance
a. Number of instances of data breaches = 0
2. Turnover of products and/ services as a percentage of turnover from all products/service that carry information about: b. Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers = 0
As a percentage to total turnover c. Impact, if any, of the data breaches
Environmental and social parameters relevant 0
Leadership Indicators
to the product Safe and responsible usage
1. Channels / platforms where information on products and services of the entity can be accessed (provide web link, if
Recycling and/or safe disposal 0
available).
3. Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following: The information of our products and services can be found at our website https://www.ntpc.co.in/about-us
FY 2023-24 FY 2022-23
2. Steps taken to inform and educate consumers about safe and responsible usage of products and/or services.
(Current Financial Year) (Previous Financial Year)
We offer customer support in various areas, including health and safety through workshops and seminars, with safety
Received Pending Remarks Received Pending Remarks
instructions displayed in local languages.
during resolution at during resolution at
the year end of year the year end of year
3. Mechanisms in place to inform consumers of any risk of disruption/discontinuation of essential services.
Data privacy NIL NIL NIL NIL NIL NIL
NTPC has The Regional Power Committee (RPC) and Load Dispatch Centers (NLDC, RLDCs, and SLDCs) which ensure
Advertising NIL NIL NIL NIL NIL NIL coordination within their respective regions.
Cyber-security NIL NIL NIL NIL NIL NIL
4. Does the entity display product information on the product over and above what is mandated as per local laws? (Yes/
Delivery of essential NIL NIL NIL NIL NIL NIL
No/Not Applicable) If yes, provide details in brief. Did your entity carry out any survey with regard to consumer
services
satisfaction relating to the major products / services of the entity, significant locations of operation of the entity or
Restrictive Trade NIL NIL NIL NIL NIL NIL the entity as a whole? (Yes/No)
Practices
Not Applicable.
Unfair Trade Practices NIL NIL NIL NIL NIL NIL
Other NIL NIL NIL NIL NIL NIL 5. Provide the following information relating to data breaches:
(a) Number of instances of data breaches along-with impact: Zero
4. Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues:
(b) Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers: Zero
Number Reasons for recall
Voluntary recalls NA NA
Forced recalls NA NA
5. Does the entity have a framework/ policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes/No) If available,
provide a web-link of the policy.
YES, our cyber security policy is available at https://www.ntpc.co.in/sites/default/files/policy-documents/CCIT-IMS-PLCY-CSP.pdf
6. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising, and delivery of essential
services; cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product recalls; penalty / action
taken by regulatory authorities on safety of products / services.
No action was taken since no significant issues relating to advertising, and delivery of essential services; cyber security
and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product recalls; penalty / action taken by regulatory
authorities on safety of products / services was identified.
292 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 293
Annexure - X to Directors’ Report 2. Industry Specific Laws: pertaining to the composition and Constitution of the Board
and Committees thereof to be constituted as per the DPE
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT a. Electricity Act, 2003.
Guidelines and SEBI (Listing Obligations & Disclosure
b. Explosives Act, 1884. Requirements) Regulations, 2015. The Changes in the
Form No. MR-3 composition of the Board of Directors that took place during
c. Mines Act, 1952
the period were carried out in compliance with the provisions
d. Mines and Mineral (Regulation and Development)
of the Act.
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024 and External Commercial Borrowings. Act, 1957
Adequate notice is given to all Directors to schedule the Board
[Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and (v) The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed We have also examined compliance with the applicable
Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on agenda were sent
Rule No.9 of the Companies (Appointment and under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, clauses of the following:
at least seven days in advance, and a system exists for seeking
Remuneration Personnel) Rules, 2014] 1992 (‘SEBI Act’):-
(i) Secretarial Standards issued by the Institute of Company and obtaining further information and clarifications on the
To, (a) The Securities and Exchange Board of India Secretaries of India. agenda items before the meeting and for meaningful
The Members, (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) participation at the.
(ii) The Listing Agreements entered into by the Company
NTPC Limited Regulations, 2011;
with the National Stock Exchange Limited and BSE Majority decision is carried through while the dissenting
NTPC Bhawan, Scope Complex, 7, Institutional Area
(b) The Securities and Exchange Board of India Limited in accordance with SEBI (Listing Obligations and members’ views are captured and recorded as part of the
Lodhi Road, New Delhi -110003
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015; Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015. minutes.
CIN: L40101DL1975GOI007966
(c) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue During the period under review the Company has We further report that there are adequate systems and
We have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance
of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, complied with the provisions of the Act, Rules, processes in the Company commensurate with the size and
of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good
2018; Regulations, Guidelines, Standards, etc. except the operations of the Company to monitor and ensure
corporate practices by NTPC Limited (hereinafter referred to
following observations: compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations and
as “the Company”) having its registered office at NTPC (d) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based
guidelines.
Bhawan, Scope Complex, 7, Institutional Area,Lodhi Road, Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014 and Securities a. The Company was not in compliance with the
New Delhi -110003. The Secretarial Audit was conducted in and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee provisions of Regulation 17 and 25(6) of SEBI (Listing We further report that during the period under review, the
a manner that provided us a reasonable basis for evaluating Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021; [Not Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Company has not undertaken any specific events/actions that
the corporate conducts/statutory compliances and expressing applicable during the Review Period]; Regulations, 2015 regarding the requirements of can have a major bearing on the Company’s compliance
my opinion thereon. having at least half of the Board of Directors as the responsibility in pursuance of the above referred laws, rules,
(e) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue
Independent Directors and filing the vacancy of the regulations, guidelines, standards, etc.
Based on our verification of the books, papers, minute books, and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008
Independent Directors within Specified Period.
forms and returns filed and other records maintained by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and
Further, half of the Board of the Company was not For Amit Agrawal & Associates
Company and also the information provided by the Company, Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) Regulations,
“non-executive” for a certain period. (Company Secretaries)
its officers, agents and authorized representatives during the 2021;
conduct of secretarial audit, we hereby report that in our b. The Company was not in compliance with the
(f) The Securities and Exchange Board of India CS Amit Agrawal
opinion, the Company has, during the audit period covering Regulation 17(10) of the SEBI (LODR) Regulations,
(Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) (Partner)
the financial year ended on March 31, 2024, complied with 2015 related to the evaluation of the Independent
Regulations, 1993 regarding the Companies Act and M. No. F5311, C.P. No. : 3647
the statutory provisions listed hereunder and also that the Directors of the Company by the entire Board of
dealing with client to the extent of Securities issued; UDIN: F005311F000727186
Company has proper Board-processes and compliance Directors of the Company.
(g) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting Place: Delhi
mechanism in place to the extent, in the manner and subject
of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009; [Not applicable We further report that: Date : 12 July 2024
to the reporting made hereinafter:
during the Audit Period]; In the absence of requisite number of Independent Directors,
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms
(h) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback the Company has not complied with the requirement
and returns filed and other records maintained by NTPC
of Securities) Regulations, 2018; [Not applicable
Limited for the financial year ended on March 31, 2024
according to the provisions of: during the Audit Period] This report is to be read with our letter of even date which is annexed herewith and marked as “Annexure A” and forms an
integral part of this report.
(i) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing
(i) The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the rules made
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
thereunder;
Regulations, 2015
(ii) The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’)
(vi) Other laws:
and the rules made thereunder;
1. Labour Laws:
(iii) The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-
laws framed thereunder; (Central Act):
(iv) Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules a. ESI Act
and regulations made thereunder to the extent of
b. EPF Act
Foreign Direct Investment, Overseas Direct Investment
294 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 295
STANDALONE BALANCE SHEET AS AT 31 MARCH 2024 STANDALONE BALANCE SHEET AS AT 31 MARCH 2024
````` Crore ````` Crore
Particulars Note As at As at* As at* Particulars Note As at As at* As at*
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 1 April 2022 31 March 2024 31 March 2023 1 April 2022
ASSETS Total non-current liabilities 1,62,497.02 1,70,049.43 1,74,549.81
Non-current assets Current liabilities
Property, plant and equipment 2 2,11,323.43 1,96,441.71 1,95,084.07 Financial liabilities
Capital work-in-progress 3 47,153.81 61,743.88 73,519.11 Borrowings 31 39,059.55 29,969.15 32,674.46
Investment property 4 859.90 465.18 - Lease liabilities 32 162.87 170.79 168.01
Intangible assets 5 427.69 454.17 486.47 Trade payables 33
Intangible assets under development 6 3.19 44.92 98.47 Total outstanding dues of micro and 538.52 272.77 285.87
small enterprises
Financial assets
Total outstanding dues of creditors other 8,936.14 9,325.33 8,235.21
Equity investments in subsidiary and 7 32,405.95 29,088.67 23,146.89
than micro and small enterprises
joint venture companies
Other financial liabilities 34 21,970.54 23,634.04 24,382.88
Other investments 8 701.98 631.08 102.48
Other current liabilities 35 1,260.33 1,212.97 1,099.84
Loans 9 800.66 1,233.47 1,288.50
Provisions 36 6,376.21 7,470.25 7,171.31
Trade receivables 10 1,168.10 2,399.78 -
Current tax liabilities (net) 37 - 62.97 134.17
Other financial assets 11 627.98 922.93 1,017.98
Total current liabilities 78,304.16 72,118.27 74,151.75
Other non-current assets 12 11,938.70 12,353.64 12,355.11
Deferred revenue 38 2,328.01 2,616.87 1,973.39
Total non-current assets 3,07,411.39 3,05,779.43 3,07,099.08
Regulatory deferral account credit balances 39 280.32 - -
Current assets
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 3,93,294.53 3,83,674.45 3,79,342.47
Inventories 13 17,369.83 13,679.75 9,691.00
Financial assets *-Restated - Refer Note 54
Investments 14 50.00 50.00 - Material accounting policy information 1
Trade receivables 15 27,347.52 26,028.64 32,949.48 The accompanying notes 1 to 77 form an integral part of these financial statements.
Cash and cash equivalents 16 197.16 3.13 117.48
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Bank balances other than cash and 17 4,403.34 3,738.60 2,629.70
cash equivalents
(Ritu Arora) (Jaikumar Srinivasan) (Gurdeep Singh)
Loans 18 415.85 312.45 313.45
Company Secretary Director (Finance) Chairman & Managing Director
Other financial assets 19 11,664.94 11,273.81 4,599.61
DIN: 01220828 DIN: 00307037
Other current assets 20 10,907.50 10,726.15 9,101.70
Total current assets 72,356.14 65,812.53 59,402.42
This is the Balance Sheet referred to in our report of even date
Assets held for sale 21 117.19 120.52 18.09
Regulatory deferral account debit balances 22 13,409.81 11,961.97 12,822.88 For Vinod Kumar & Associates For Goyal Parul & Co For M. C. Bhandari & Co.
TOTAL ASSETS 3,93,294.53 3,83,674.45 3,79,342.47 Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Firm Reg. No. 002304N Firm Reg. No. 016750N Firm Reg. No. 303002E
Equity
(Mukesh Dadhich) (Parul Goyal) (Amit Biswas)
Equity share capital 23 9,696.67 9,696.67 9,696.67
Partner Partner Partner
Other equity 24 1,40,188.35 1,29,193.21 1,18,970.85
M. No. 511741 M. No. 099172 M. No. 052296
Total equity 1,49,885.02 1,38,889.88 1,28,667.52
Liabilities
For J K S S & Associates For Agasti & Associates For S.N. Kapur & Associates
Non-current liabilities Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants
Financial liabilities Firm Reg. No. 006836C Firm Reg. No. 313043E Firm Reg. No. 001545C
Borrowings 25 1,46,159.07 1,56,315.69 1,60,122.17
Lease liabilities 26 824.52 815.44 815.07 (Ram Babu) (B. Agasti) (S. N. Kapur)
Other financial liabilities 27 465.60 505.81 900.09 Partner Partner Partner
M. No. 016151 M. No. 051026 M. No. 014335
Provisions 28 1,898.03 1,727.78 1,446.48
Deferred tax liabilities (net) 29 13,066.53 10,614.07 10,184.39
Place: New Delhi
Other non-current liabilities 30 83.27 70.64 1,081.61
Dated: 24 May, 2024
Digitally signed by signatories
296 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 297
STANDALONE STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 STANDALONE STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024
````` Crore ````` Crore
Particulars Note For the year For the year Particulars Note For the year For the year
No. ended ended No. ended ended
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Income Earnings per equity share (Par value ````` 10/- each) 61
Revenue from operations 40 1,61,985.03 1,63,769.77 Basic & Diluted (`) (including net movement in 18.64 17.73
regulatory deferral account balances)
Other income 41 3,722.24 3,954.64
Basic & Diluted (`) (excluding net movement in 17.48 18.34
Total income 1,65,707.27 1,67,724.41
regulatory deferral account balances)
Expenses
Material accounting policy information 1
Fuel cost 42 94,037.49 96,851.50
The accompanying notes 1 to 77 form an integral part of these financial statements.
Electricity purchased for trading 3,881.66 3,656.26
Employee benefits expense 43 5,670.10 5,559.03 For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Finance costs 44 10,250.82 9,979.23
(Ritu Arora) (Jaikumar Srinivasan) (Gurdeep Singh)
Depreciation, amortization and impairment expenses 45 13,943.15 13,136.71
Company Secretary Director (Finance) Chairman & Managing Director
Other expenses 46 15,213.43 14,474.59 DIN: 01220828 DIN: 00307037
Total expenses 1,42,996.65 1,43,657.32
This is the Statement of Profit and Loss referred to in our report of even date
Profit before exceptional items, tax and regulatory deferral 22,710.62 24,067.09
account balances For Vinod Kumar & Associates For Goyal Parul & Co For M. C. Bhandari & Co.
Exceptional items 51 834.55 - Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants
Firm Reg. No. 002304N Firm Reg. No. 016750N Firm Reg. No. 303002E
Profit before tax and regulatory deferral account balances 23,545.17 24,067.09
Tax expense 55 (Mukesh Dadhich) (Parul Goyal) (Amit Biswas)
Partner Partner Partner
Current tax
M. No. 511741 M. No. 099172 M. No. 052296
Current year 4,094.36 4,293.56
Earlier years (152.63) 206.35 For J K S S & Associates For Agasti & Associates For S.N. Kapur & Associates
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants
Deferred tax 2,658.30 1,779.36
Firm Reg. No. 006836C Firm Reg. No. 313043E Firm Reg. No. 001545C
Total tax expense 6,600.03 6,279.27
Profit before regulatory deferral account balances 16,945.14 17,787.82 (Ram Babu) (B. Agasti) (S. N. Kapur)
Partner Partner Partner
Net movement in regulatory deferral account balances (net of tax) 70 1,134.25 (591.09)
M. No. 016151 M. No. 051026 M. No. 014335
Profit for the year 18,079.39 17,196.73
Place: New Delhi
Other comprehensive income
Dated: 24 May, 2024
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
Digitally signed by signatories
- Net actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit plans (128.00) (96.09)
- Net gains/(losses) on fair value of equity instruments 120.90 3.60
(7.10) (92.49)
Income tax on items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 55
- Net actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit plans 22.36 16.79
Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 15.26 (75.70)
Total comprehensive income for the year 18,094.65 17,121.03
298 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 299
STANDALONE STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 For the year ended 31 March 2023 ` Crore
(A) Equity share capital Particulars Reserves & surplus
For the year ended 31 March 2024 ````` Crore Capital Capital Bonds/ Fly ash General Retained Equity Total
reserve redemption Debentures utilisation reserve earnings instruments
Particulars Amount
reserve redemption reserve through OCI
Balance as at 1 April 2023 9,696.67 reserve fund
Changes in equity share capital due to prior period errors - Balance as at 1 April 2022- As restated 50.08 197.89 5,643.18 598.41 96,147.17 16,247.42 86.70 1,18,970.85
Restated balance as at 1 April 2023 9,696.67 Profit for the year - - - - - 17,196.73 - 17,196.73
Changes in equity share capital during the year - Other comprehensive income - - - - - (79.30) 3.60 (75.70)
Balance as at 31 March 2024 9,696.67 Total comprehensive income - - - - - 17,117.43 3.60 17,121.03
Transfer to retained earnings - - (628.57) - - 628.57 - -
For the year ended 31 March 2023 ` Crore
Accretion / (utilisation) in fly ash utilisation fund - - - 131.41 - - - 131.41
Particulars Amount
(net) (Note 24)
Balance as at 1 April 2022 9,696.67
Final dividend paid for FY 2021-22 (Note 24) - - - - - (2,909.00) - (2,909.00)
Changes in equity share capital due to prior period errors -
Interim dividend paid for FY 2022-23 (Note 24) - - - - - (4,121.08) - (4,121.08)
Restated balance as at 1 April 2022 9,696.67
Balance as at 31 March 2023 50.08 197.89 5,014.61 729.82 96,147.17 26,963.34 90.30 1,29,193.21
Changes in equity share capital during the year -
Note: Other comprehensive income adjusted in retained earnings amounting to ````` 105.64 crore ( 31 March 2023: ` 79.30 crore) represents remeasurement of
Balance as at 31 March 2023 9,696.67
defined benefit plans.
(B) Other equity
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For the year ended 31 March 2024 ````` Crore
Particulars Reserves & surplus (Ritu Arora) (Jaikumar Srinivasan) (Gurdeep Singh)
Capital Capital Bonds/ Fly ash General Retained Equity Total Company Secretary Director (Finance) Chairman & Managing Director
reserve redemption Debentures utilisation reserve earnings instruments DIN: 01220828 DIN: 00307037
reserve redemption reserve through OCI
reserve fund This is the Statement of Changes in Equity referred to in our report of even date
Balance as at 1 April 2023 50.08 197.89 5,014.61 729.82 96,147.17 26,963.34 90.30 1,29,193.21
For Vinod Kumar & Associates For Goyal Parul & Co For M. C. Bhandari & Co.
Profit for the year - - - - - 18,079.39 - 18,079.39
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants
Other comprehensive income - - - - - (105.64) 120.90 15.26
Firm Reg. No. 002304N Firm Reg. No. 016750N Firm Reg. No. 303002E
Total comprehensive income - - - - - 17,973.75 120.90 18,094.65
Transfer to retained earnings - - (1,795.23) - - 1,795.23 - - (Mukesh Dadhich) (Parul Goyal) (Amit Biswas)
Accretion / (utilisation) in fly ash - - - 172.99 - - - 172.99 Partner Partner Partner
utilisation fund (net) (Note 24) M. No. 511741 M. No. 099172 M. No. 052296
Final dividend paid for FY 2022-23 (Note 24) - - - - - (2,909.00) - (2,909.00)
For J K S S & Associates For Agasti & Associates For S.N. Kapur & Associates
Interim dividend paid for FY 2023-24 (Note 24) - - - - - (4,363.50) - (4,363.50)
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants
Balance as at 31 March 2024 50.08 197.89 3,219.38 902.81 96,147.17 39,459.82 211.20 1,40,188.35
Firm Reg. No. 006836C Firm Reg. No. 313043E Firm Reg. No. 001545C
(Ram Babu) (B. Agasti) (S. N. Kapur)
Partner Partner Partner
M. No. 016151 M. No. 051026 M. No. 014335
Place: New Delhi
Dated: 24 May, 2024
Digitally signed by signatories
300 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 301
STANDALONE STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 STANDALONE STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024
````` Crore ````` Crore
Particulars For the year For the year Particulars For the year For the year
ended ended ended ended
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
A. CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES Interest income/Late payment Surcharge/Income on 517.72 369.06
investments received
Profit before tax and regulatory deferral account balances 23,545.17 24,067.09
Dividend received 1,765.59 1,992.54
Add: Net movements in regulatory deferral account balances 1,134.25 (591.09)
(net of tax) Income tax paid on income from investing activities (402.28) (388.54)
Add: Tax on net movements in regulatory deferral account balances 240.13 (125.14) Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents (620.17) (1,085.70)
Profit before tax including movements in regulatory deferral Proceeds from sale of assets to Subsidiary - 12,010.55
account balances 24,919.55 23,350.86 Net cash from/(used in) investing activities - B (15,118.16) (14,100.69)
Adjustment for: C. CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment expense 13,943.15 13,136.71 Proceeds from non-current borrowings 16,334.16 16,257.48
Provisions 844.27 621.64 Repayment of non-current borrowings (20,048.84) (22,371.86)
Impairment on investments 181.05 14.24 Proceeds/repayments of current borrowings (Net) 3,907.17 (2,511.28)
Exceptional item-provision written back (834.55) - Payment of lease obligations (55.48) (151.68)
On account of government grants 13.04 234.28
Interest paid (12,383.23) (12,557.58)
Deferred foreign currency fluctuation asset 78.84 (84.69)
Dividend paid (7,272.50) (7,030.08)
Deferred income from foreign currency fluctuation 10.94 915.67
Net cash from/(used in) financing activities - C (19,518.72) (28,365.00)
Regulatory deferral account debit/(credit) balances (1,374.38) 716.23
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (A+B+C) 194.03 (114.35)
Fly ash utilisation reserve fund 172.99 131.41
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 3.13 117.48
Finance costs 10,159.69 9,915.66
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 197.16 3.13
Unwinding of discount on vendor liabilities 91.13 63.57
Notes:
Interest income/Late payment Surcharge/Income on investments (819.33) (757.70)
1 Statement of cash flows is prepared in accordance with the indirect method prescribed in Ind AS 7-‘Statement of cash
Dividend income (1,639.08) (2,342.54)
flows’.
Provisions written back (231.95) (367.04)
2 Cash and cash equivalents consist of cheques, drafts, stamps in hand, balances with banks and deposits with original
Profit on de-recognition of property, plant and equipment (29.74) (31.73)
maturity of upto three months.
Loss on de-recognition of property, plant and equipment 215.46 165.36
3 Reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents:
20,781.53 22,331.07
Cash and cash equivalents as per Note 16 197.16 3.13
Operating profit before working capital changes 45,701.08 45,681.93
4 Refer Note 67 for details of undrawn borrowing facilities that may be available for future operating activities and to
Adjustment for:
settle capital commitments.
Trade receivables 122.58 4,464.08
5 Refer Note 77 w.r.t. amount spent on CSR activities.
Inventories (2,515.99) (2,921.65)
6 Reconciliation between the opening and closing balances in the balance sheet for liabilities arising from financing activities:
Trade payables, provisions, other financial liabilities and other (937.73) 3,875.07
liabilities
For the year ended 31 March 2024 ````` Crore
Loans, other financial assets and other assets (4,263.01) (5,011.81)
Particulars Non-current Finance lease Current Bills
(7,594.15) 405.69
borrowings* obligations borrowings discounted
Cash generated from operations 38,106.93 46,087.62
Opening balance as at 1 April 2023 1,75,974.86 986.23 11,509.73 1,287.19
Income taxes (paid) / refunded (3,276.02) (3,736.28)
Net cash from/(used in) operating activities - A 34,830.91 42,351.34 Cash flows during the year (16,097.91) (55.48) 3,369.65 537.52
B. CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES Non-cash changes due to:
Purchase of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets (17,444.27) (17,320.53) - Acquisitions under finance lease - 56.64 - -
and investment property
- Interest on borrowings 12,282.52 - - -
Proceeds of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets 75.19 97.01
- Variation in exchange rates (1,279.33) - - -
and investment property
- Transaction costs on borrowings 20.62 - - -
Sale of investment in Subsidiaries companies - 1,094.46
Investment in subsidiaries and joint venture companies (2,525.85) (7,788.41) Closing balance as at 31 March 2024 1,70,900.76 987.39 14,879.38 1,824.71
Redemption of Non convertible debentures 50.00 25.00
Loans and advances to subsidiaries 3,465.91 (3,106.13)
302 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 303
STANDALONE STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 March 2023 ` Crore Note 1. Company Information and Material Accounting Policy Information
Particulars Non-current Finance lease Current Bills
A. Reporting entity
borrowings* obligations borrowings discounted
Opening balance as at 1 April 2022 1,79,853.77 983.08 7,106.17 8,202.03 NTPC Limited (the “Company”) is a Company domiciled in India and limited by shares (CIN: L40101DL1975GOI007966).
The shares of the Company are listed and traded on the National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE) and BSE Limited
Cash flows during the year (18,671.96) (151.68) 4,403.56 (6,914.84)
(BSE) in India. The address of the Company’s registered office is NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex, 7 Institutional Area,
Non-cash changes due to:
Lodhi Road, New Delhi - 110003. The Company is primarily involved in the generation and sale of bulk power to State
- Acquisitions under finance lease - 154.83 - -
Power Utilities. Other business of the Company includes providing consultancy, project management & supervision,
- Interest on borrowings 12,679.18 - - - energy trading, oil & gas exploration and coal mining.
- Variation in exchange rates 2,155.14 - - -
B. Basis of preparation
- Transaction costs on borrowings (41.27) - - -
Closing balance as at 31 March 2023 1,75,974.86 986.23 11,509.73 1,287.19 1. Statement of Compliance
* Includes current maturities of non-current borrowings and interest accrued thereon, refer Note 25 and Note 31. These standalone financial statements are prepared on going concern basis following accrual system of accounting and
comply with the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) prescribed under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 read
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 as amended, and other relevant provisions of the
Companies Act, 2013 and the provisions of the Electricity Act, 2003 to the extent applicable.
(Ritu Arora) (Jaikumar Srinivasan) (Gurdeep Singh)
These financial statements were approved for issue by the Board of Directors in its meeting held on 24 May 2024.
Company Secretary Director (Finance) Chairman & Managing Director
DIN: 01220828 DIN: 00307037 2. Basis of measurement
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for:
This is the Standalone statement of Cash Flows referred to in our report of even date
• Certain financial assets and liabilities (including derivative instruments) that are measured at fair value (refer serial
For Vinod Kumar & Associates For Goyal Parul & Co For M. C. Bhandari & Co. no. C.22 of accounting policy regarding financial instruments); and
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants
• Plan assets in the case of employees defined benefit plans that are measured at fair value.
Firm Reg. No. 002304N Firm Reg. No. 016750N Firm Reg. No. 303002E
The methods used to measure fair values are discussed in notes to the financial statements.
(Mukesh Dadhich) (Parul Goyal) (Amit Biswas)
3. Functional and presentation currency
Partner Partner Partner
M. No. 511741 M. No. 099172 M. No. 052296 These financial statements are presented in Indian Rupees (`) which is the Company’s functional currency. All financial
information presented in (`) has been rounded to the nearest crore (up to two decimals), except when indicated otherwise.
For J K S S & Associates For Agasti & Associates For S.N. Kapur & Associates
4. Current and non-current classification
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants
Firm Reg. No. 006836C Firm Reg. No. 313043E Firm Reg. No. 001545C The Company classifies its assets and liabilities as current/non-current in the balance sheet as per the requirements of
Ind AS 1 and considering 12 months period as normal operating cycle.
(Ram Babu) (B. Agasti) (S. N. Kapur)
Partner Partner Partner C. Material accounting policies
M. No. 016151 M. No. 051026 M. No. 014335
A summary of the material accounting policies applied in the preparation of the financial statements are as given below.
These accounting policies have been applied consistently to all periods presented in the financial statements. It allows
Place: New Delhi
for an understanding as to how material transactions, other events and conditions are reported. It also describes: (a)
Dated: 24 May, 2024
judgements, apart from those involving estimations, that management makes in applying the policies that have the
Digitally signed by signatories
most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the Financial Statements; and (b) estimations, including assumptions
about the future, that management makes in applying the policies.
The Company has elected to utilize the option under Ind AS 101-‘First time adoption of Indian Accounting Standards’ by
not applying the provisions of Ind AS 16-‘Property, plant and equipment’& Ind AS 38- ‘Intangible assets’ retrospectively
and continue to use the previous GAAP carrying amount as a deemed cost under Ind AS at the date of transition to Ind
AS i.e. 1 April 2015. Therefore, the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets as per the
previous GAAP as at 1 April 2015, i.e. the Company’s date of transition to Ind AS, were maintained on transition to Ind
AS.
304 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 305
1. Property, plant and equipment 1.5. Depreciation/amortization
1.1. Initial recognition and measurement Depreciation on the assets of the generation of electricity business, integrated coal mining and on the assets of Corporate
& other offices of the Company, covered under Part B of Schedule II of the Companies Act, 2013, is charged on straight-
An item of property, plant and equipment is recognized as an asset if and only if it is probable that future economic
line method following the rates and methodology notified by the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (CERC)
benefits associated with the item will flow to the Company and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
Tariff Regulations.
Items of property, plant and equipment are initially recognized at cost. Subsequent measurement is done at cost less
Depreciation on the assets of the oil & gas exploration, power plants not governed by CERC Tariff Regulations, investment
accumulated depreciation/amortization and accumulated impairment losses.
properties and consultancy business is charged on straight-line method following the useful life specified in Schedule
When parts of an item of property, plant and equipment that are significant in value and have different useful lives as II of the Companies Act, 2013 except for the assets referred below.
compared to the main asset, they are recognized separately.
Depreciation on the following assets is provided on their estimated useful lives, which are different from the useful
Deposits, payments/liabilities made provisionally towards compensation, rehabilitation and other expenses relatable lives as prescribed under Schedule II to the Companies Act, 2013, ascertained on the basis of technical evaluation/
to land in possession are treated as cost of land. assessment:
In the case of assets put to use, where final settlement of bills with contractors is yet to be effected, capitalization is
a) Kutcha roads 2 years
done on provisional basis subject to necessary adjustment in the year of final settlement.
b) Enabling works - Enabling works - residential and non-residential buildings, including 5-15 years
Assets and systems common to more than one generating unit are capitalized on the basis of engineering estimates/
their internal electrification, water supply, sewerage & drainage works,
assessments.
railway sidings, aerodromes, helipads and airstrips
Items of spare parts, stand-by equipment and servicing equipment which meet the definition of property, plant and
c) Personal computers & laptops including peripherals 3 years
equipment are capitalized. Other spare parts are carried as inventory and recognized as expense in the statement of
profit and loss on consumption. d) Temporary erections including wooden structures 1 year
The acquisition or construction of some items of property, plant and equipment although not directly increasing the e) Energy saving electrical appliances and fittings 2-7 years
future economic benefits of any particular existing item of property, plant and equipment, may be necessary for the
f) Solar/wind power plants which are not governed by CERC Tariff Regulations 25 years
Company to obtain future economic benefits from its other assets. Such items are recognized as property, plant and
equipment. g) Furniture, Fixture, Office equipment and Communication equipment 5-15 years
Excess of net sale proceed of items produced while bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary for it to
Major overhaul and inspection costs which have been capitalized are depreciated over the period until the next scheduled
be capable of operating in the manner intended by management is deducted from the directly attributable cost
outage or actual major inspection/overhaul, whichever is earlier.
considered as part of an item of property, plant and equipment.
Capital spares are depreciated considering the useful life ranging between 2 to 40 years based on technical assessment.
1.2. Subsequent costs
Right-of-use land and buildings relating to generation of electricity business governed by CERC Tariff Regulations are
Subsequent expenditure is recognized in the carrying amount of the asset when it is probable that future economic
fully amortized on straight line method over the lease period or life of the related plant whichever is lower following
benefits deriving from the cost incurred will flow to the enterprise and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
the rates and methodology notified by the CERC Tariff Regulations.
Expenditure on major inspection and overhauls of generating unit is capitalized, when it meets the asset recognition
Right-of-use land and buildings relating to generation of electricity business which are not governed by CERC tariff
criteria. Any remaining carrying amount of the cost of the previous inspection and overhaul is derecognized.
Regulations are fully amortized on straight line method over the lease period or life of the related plant whichever is
The cost of replacing major part of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognized in the carrying amount of lower.
the item if it is probable that the future economic benefits embodied within the part will flow to the Company and its
Right-of-use land and buildings relating to corporate, and other offices are fully amortized on straight line method over
cost can be measured reliably. The carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognized regardless of whether the
lease period or twenty-five years whichever is lower following the rates and methodology notified by the CERC Tariff
replaced part has been depreciated separately. If it is not practicable to determine the carrying amount of the replaced
Regulations.
part, the Company uses the cost of the replacement as an indication of what the cost of replaced part was at the time
it was acquired or constructed. The costs of the day-to-day servicing of property, plant and equipment are recognized Land acquired under Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition & Development) Act, 1957 and Other right-of-use land acquired
in the statement of profit and loss as and when incurred. for mining business are amortized on straight line method over the right of use period or balance life of the project
whichever is lower.
1.3. Decommissioning costs
In respect of integrated coal mines, the mines closure, site restoration and decommissioning obligations are amortized
The present value of the expected cost for the decommissioning of the asset after its use is included in the cost of the
on straight line method over the balance life of the mine on commercial declaration.
respective asset if the recognition criteria for a provision are met.
Depreciation on additions to/deductions from property, plant and equipment during the year is charged on pro-rata
1.4. De-recognition
basis from/up to the month in which the asset is available for use/sale, disposal or earmarked for disposal.
Property, plant and equipment is derecognized when no future economic benefits are expected from their use or upon
Where the cost of depreciable assets has undergone a change during the year due to increase/decrease in long-term
their disposal. Gains and losses on de-recognition of an item of property, plant and equipment are determined as the
liabilities (recognized up to 31 March 2016) on account of exchange fluctuation and price adjustment change in duties
difference between sale proceeds from disposal, if any, and the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment and
or similar factors, the unamortized balance of such asset is charged off prospectively over the remaining useful life
are recognized in the statement of profit and loss.
determined following the applicable accounting policies relating to depreciation/amortization.
306 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 307
Where it is probable that future economic benefits deriving from the expenditure incurred will flow to the Company 4. Regulatory deferral account balances
and the cost of the item can be measured reliably, subsequent expenditure on a property, plant and equipment along-
Expense/income recognized in the statement of profit and loss to the extent recoverable from or payable to the
with its unamortized depreciable amount is charged off prospectively over the revised useful life determined by technical
beneficiaries in subsequent periods as per CERC Tariff Regulations are recognized as ‘Regulatory deferral account
assessment.
balances’.
The residual values, useful lives and method of depreciation of assets other than the assets of generation of electricity
Regulatory deferral account balances are adjusted in the year in which the same become recoverable from or payable
business and integrated coal mines governed by CERC Tariff Regulations, are reviewed at each financial year end and
to the beneficiaries.
adjusted prospectively, wherever required.
Regulatory deferral account balances are evaluated at each balance sheet date to ensure that the underlying activities
Depreciation of an asset ceases at the earlier of the date that the asset is classified as held for sale (or included in a
meet the recognition criteria and it is probable that future economic benefits associated with such balances will flow
disposal group that is classified as held for sale) in accordance with Ind AS 105 and the date that the asset is derecognised.
to the entity. If these criteria are not met, the regulatory deferral account balances are derecognized.
Refer policy no. C.16 in respect of depreciation/amortization of right-of-use assets other than land and buildings.
5. Development expenditure on coal mines
2. Capital work-in-progress
When proved reserves are determined and development of mines/project is sanctioned, exploration and evaluation
Cost incurred for property, plant and equipment that are not ready for their intended use as on the reporting date, is assets are transferred to ‘Development of coal mines’ under ‘Capital work-in-progress’.
classified under capital work- in-progress.
Subsequent expenditure is capitalized only where it either enhances the economic benefits of the development/
The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials & direct labour, any other costs directly attributable producing asset or replaces part of the existing development/producing asset. Any remaining costs associated with
to bringing the assets to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended the part replaced are expensed.
by management and the borrowing costs attributable to the acquisition or construction of qualifying asset.
The development expenditure capitalized is net of value of coal extracted during development phase.
Expenses directly attributable to construction of property, plant and equipment incurred till they are ready for their
Date of commercial operation of integrated coal mines shall be determined on the occurring of earliest of following
intended use are identified and allocated on a systematic basis on the cost of related assets.
milestones as provided in CERC tariff regulations:
Deposit works/cost plus contracts are accounted for on the basis of statements of account received from the contractors.
1) The first date of the year succeeding the year in which 25 % of the peak rated capacity as per the mining plan is
Unsettled liabilities for price variation/exchange rate variation in case of contracts are accounted for on estimated achieved; or
basis as per terms of the contracts.
2) The first date of the year succeeding the year in which the value of production exceeds the total expenditure in
The Company periodically reviews its Capital work-in-progress and in case of abandoned works, provision for that year; or
unserviceable cost is provided for, as required, basis the technical assessment. Further, provisions made are reviewed
3) The date of two years from the date of commencement of production;
at regular intervals and in case work has been subsequently taken up, then provision earlier provided for is written
back to the extent the same is no longer required. The above is subject to commercial readiness to yield production on a sustainable basis (i.e. when the Company
determines that the mining property will provide sufficient and sustainable return relative to its perceived risks and
Net pre-commissioning income/expenditure is adjusted directly in the cost of related assets and systems.
therefore it is considered probable that future economic benefits will flow to the Company).
3. Intangible assets and intangible assets under development On the date of commercial operation, the assets under capital work-in-progress are classified as a component of
property, plant and equipment under ‘Mining property’.
3.1. Initial recognition and measurement
Gains and losses on de-recognition of assets referred above, are determined as the difference between the net disposal
Intangible assets that are acquired by the Company, which have finite useful lives, are recognized at cost. Subsequent
proceeds, if any, and the carrying amount of respective assets and are recognized in the statement of profit and loss.
measurement is done at cost less accumulated amortization and accumulated impairment losses.
3.2. Subsequent costs 5.1. Stripping activity expense/adjustment
Subsequent expenditure is recognized as an increase in the carrying amount of the asset when it is probable that Expenditure incurred on removal of mine waste materials (overburden) necessary to extract the coal reserves is referred
future economic benefits deriving from the cost incurred will flow to the enterprise and the cost of the item can be to as stripping cost. The Company has to incur such expenses over the life of the mine as technically estimated.
measured reliably.
Cost of stripping is charged on technically evaluated average stripping ratio at each mine with due adjustment for
3.3. De-recognition stripping activity asset and ratio-variance account after the mines are brought to revenue.
An intangible asset is derecognized when no future economic benefits are expected from their use or upon their Net of the balances of stripping activity asset and ratio variance at the Balance Sheet date is shown as ‘Stripping
disposal. Gain or loss on de-recognition of an intangible asset is determined as the difference between the net disposal activity adjustment’ under the head ‘Non-current assets/Non-current provisions’ as the case may be, and adjusted as
proceeds, if any, and the carrying amount of intangible assets and are recognized in the statement of profit and loss. provided in the CERC Tariff Regulations
3.4. Amortization 5.2. Mines closure, site restoration and decommissioning obligations
Cost of software recognized as intangible asset, is amortized on straight-line method over a period of legal right to use The Company’s obligations for land reclamation and decommissioning of structure consist of spending at mines in
or 3 years, whichever is less. accordance with the guidelines from Ministry of Coal, Government of India. The Company estimates its obligations for
mine closure, site restoration and decommissioning based on the detailed calculation and technical assessment of the
The amortization period and the amortization method of intangible assets with a finite useful life is reviewed at each
amount and timing of future cash spending for the required work and provided for as per approved mine closure plan.
financial year end and adjusted prospectively, wherever required.
The estimate of expenses is escalated for inflation and then discounted at a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current
308 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 309
market assessment of the time value of money and risk, such that the amount of provision reflects the present value The Company can incur borrowing costs during an extended period in which it suspends the activities necessary to
of expenditure required to settle the obligation. The Company recognizes a corresponding asset under property, plant prepare an asset for its intended use or sale. Such costs are costs of holding partially completed assets and is not
and equipment as a separate item for the cost associated with such obligation. Upon commercial declaration of mines, eligible for capitalisation. However, the Company does not normally suspend capitalising borrowing costs during a
the mine closure, site restoration and decommissioning obligations are amortized on straight line method over the period when it carries out substantial technical and administrative work. The Company also does not suspend capitalising
balance life of the mine. borrowing costs when a temporary delay is a necessary part of the process of getting an asset ready for its intended
use or sale.
The value of the obligation is progressively increased over time as the effect of discounting unwinds and the same is
recognized as finance costs.
8. Inventories
Further, a specific escrow account is maintained for this purpose as per approved mine closure plan. The progressive
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Cost is determined on weighted average basis..
mine closure expenses incurred on year to year basis, forming part of the total mine closure obligation, are initially
recognized as receivable from escrow account and thereafter adjusted with the obligation in the year in which the The diminution in the value of obsolete/ unserviceable/surplus stores and spares and non-moving unserviceable
amount is withdrawn from escrow account after concurrence of the certifying agency. inventories is ascertained on review and provided for.
Transit and handling losses of coal as per Company’s norms are included in cost of coal.
6. Investment Property
Investment properties are properties held to earn rental or for capital appreciation or for both and are not intended to 9. Government grants
be used in the operations of the Company. Investment properties are measured initially at its cost, including transaction
Government grants are recognized when there is reasonable assurance that they will be received and the Company
costs. Investment properties are subsequently measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated
will comply with the conditions associated with the grant. Grants that compensate the Company for the cost of
impairment losses, if any. Subsequent expenditure is capitalized to the asset’s carrying amount only when it is probable
depreciable asset are recognized as income in statement of profit and loss on a systematic basis over the period and in
that future economic benefits associated with the expenditure will flow to the Company and the cost of the item can
the proportion in which depreciation is charged. Grants that compensate the Company for expenses incurred are
be measured reliably. Investment properties are depreciated / amortised considering the material accounting policy
recognized over the period in which the related costs are incurred and the same is deducted from the related expenses.
no. C.1.5 and C.16.1.
A property shall be transferred to or from investment property when, and only when, there is change in use. A change 10. Fly ash utilization reserve fund
in use occurs when the property meets, or ceases to meet the definition of investment property and there is evidence
Proceeds from sale of ash/ash products along-with income on investment of surplus fund are transferred to ‘Fly ash
of the change in use.
utilization reserve fund’ in terms of provisions of gazette notifications issued by Ministry of Environment and Forests &
An investment property is derecognized upon disposal or when the investment property is permanently withdrawn Climate Change, Government of India, from time to time. The fund is utilized towards expenditure on development of
from use and no future economic benefits are expected from the disposal. Any gain or loss arising on de-recognition of infrastructure/facilities, promotion & facilitation activities for use of fly ash.
the property (calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset) is
included in profit or loss in the period in which the property is derecognized. 11. Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets
A provision is recognized if, as a result of a past event, the Company has a present legal or constructive obligation that
7. Borrowing costs
can be estimated reliably, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
Borrowing costs consist of (a) interest expense calculated using the effective interest method as described in Ind AS If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash
109 – ‘Financial Instruments’ (b) interest expense on lease liabilities recognized in accordance with Ind AS 116– ‘Leases’ flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the
and (c) exchange differences arising from foreign currency borrowings to the extent that they are regarded as an liability. When discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognized as a finance
adjustment to interest costs. cost.
Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction/exploration/ development or erection of The amount recognized as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation
qualifying assets are capitalized as part of cost of such asset until such time the assets are substantially ready for their at reporting date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
intended use. Qualifying assets are assets which necessarily take substantial period of time to get ready for their
When some or all of the economic benefits required to settle a provision are expected to be recovered from a third
intended use or sale.
party, the receivable is recognized as an asset if it is virtually certain that reimbursement will be received and the
When the Company borrows funds specifically for the purpose of obtaining a qualifying asset, the borrowing costs amount of the receivable can be measured reliably. The expense relating to a provision is presented in the statement
incurred are capitalized. When Company borrows funds generally and uses them for the purpose of obtaining a qualifying of profit and loss net of reimbursement, if any.
asset, the capitalization of the borrowing costs is computed based on the weighted average cost of all borrowings that
Contingent liabilities are possible obligations that arise from past events and whose existence will only be confirmed
are outstanding during the period and used for the acquisition, construction/exploration or erection of the qualifying
by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more future events not wholly within the control of the Company.
asset. However, borrowing costs applicable to borrowings made specifically for the purpose of obtaining a qualifying
Where it is not probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required, or the amount cannot be estimated
asset, are excluded from this calculation, until substantially all the activities necessary to prepare that asset for its
reliably, the obligation is disclosed as a contingent liability, unless the probability of outflow of economic benefits is
intended use or sale are complete.
remote. Contingent liabilities are disclosed on the basis of judgment of the management/independent experts. These
Income earned on temporary investment made out of the borrowings pending utilization for expenditure on the are reviewed at each balance sheet date and are adjusted to reflect the current management estimate.
qualifying assets is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalization.
Contingent assets are possible assets that arise from past events and whose existence will be confirmed only by the
Capitalization of borrowing costs ceases when substantially all the activities necessary to prepare the qualifying assets occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of the Company.
for their intended use are complete. Contingent assets are disclosed in the financial statements when inflow of economic benefits is probable on the basis
of judgment of management. These are assessed continually to ensure that developments are appropriately reflected
Other borrowing costs are recognized as an expense in the year in which they are incurred.
in the financial statements.
310 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 311
Present obligations arising under onerous contracts are recognised and measured as provisions. An onerous contract Exchange differences on account of translation of foreign currency borrowings recognized up to 31 March 2016, to the
is considered to exist where the Company has a contract under which the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations extent recoverable from or payable to the beneficiaries in subsequent periods as per the CERC Tariff Regulations are
under the contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be received from the contract. accounted as ‘Deferred foreign currency fluctuation asset’ with corresponding credit to ‘Deferred income from foreign
currency fluctuation’. Deferred income from foreign currency fluctuation account is amortized in the proportion in
12. Foreign currency transactions and translation which depreciation is charged on such exchange differences and same is adjusted against depreciation expense. Fair
value changes in respect of forward exchange contracts for derivatives recoverable from/payable to the beneficiaries
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the functional currency spot exchange rates at the date the
as per the CERC Tariff Regulations, are recognized in sales.
transaction first qualifies for recognition.
Revenue from sale of energy through trading is recognized based on the rates, terms & conditions mutually agreed
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies outstanding at the reporting date are translated at
with the beneficiaries as per the guidelines issued by Ministry of New and Renewable Energy, Government of India.
the functional currency spot rates of exchange prevailing on that date. Exchange differences arising on settlement or
translation of monetary items are recognized in the statement of profit and loss in the year in which it arises with the Rebates allowed to beneficiaries as early payment incentives are deducted from the amount of revenue.
exception that exchange differences on long term monetary items related to acquisition of property, plant and equipment
Revenue from sale of energy saving certificates is accounted for as and when sold.
recognized up to 31 March 2016 are adjusted to the carrying cost of property, plant and equipment.
13.2. Revenue from services
Non-monetary items denominated in foreign currency which are measured in terms of historical cost are recorded
using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction. In case of advance consideration received or paid in a foreign Revenue from consultancy, project management and supervision services rendered is measured based on the
currency, the date of transaction for the purpose of determining the exchange rate to use on initial recognition of the consideration that is specified in a contract with a customer or is expected to be received in exchange for the services,
related asset, expense or income (or part of it), is when the Company initially recognizes the non-monetary asset or which is determined on output method and excludes amounts collected on behalf of third parties. The Company
non-monetary liability arising from the payment or receipt of advance consideration. recognizes revenue when the performance obligation is satisfied, which typically occurs when control over the services
is transferred to a customer.
13. Revenue
Reimbursement of expenses is recognized as other income, as per the terms of the service contracts.
Company’s revenues arise from sale and trading of energy, consultancy, project management & supervision services,
Contract modifications are accounted for when additions, deletions or changes are approved either to the contract
income on assets under lease, supply of coal from integrated coal mines and other income. Revenue from other income
scope or contract price. The accounting for modifications of contracts involves assessing whether the services added
comprises interest from banks, employees, contractors etc., dividend from investments in joint venture & subsidiary
to an existing contract are distinct and whether the pricing is at the standalone selling price. Services added that are
companies, dividend from mutual fund investments, surcharge received from beneficiaries for delayed payments, sale
not distinct are accounted for on a cumulative catch up basis, while those that are distinct are accounted for prospectively,
of scrap, other miscellaneous income, etc.
either as a separate contract, if the additional services are priced at the standalone selling price, or as a termination of
13.1. Revenue from sale of energy the existing contract and creation of a new contract if not priced at the standalone selling price.
The majority of the Company’s operations in India are regulated under the Electricity Act, 2003. Accordingly, the CERC 13.3. Other income
determines the tariff for the Company’s power plants based on the norms prescribed in the tariff regulations as applicable
Interest income is recognized, when no significant uncertainty as to measurability or collectability exist, on a time
from time to time. Tariff is based on the capital cost incurred for a specific power plant and primarily comprises two
proportion basis taking into account the amount outstanding and the applicable interest rate, using the effective
components: capacity charge i.e. a fixed charge that includes depreciation, return on equity, interest on working capital,
interest rate method (EIR). For debt instruments measured either at amortized cost or at fair value through other
operating & maintenance expenses, interest on loan and energy charge i.e. a variable charge primarily based on fuel
comprehensive income (OCI), interest income is recognized using the EIR to the gross carrying amount of the financial
costs. Tariff for Company’s integrated coal mines are also determined by CERC based on the norms prescribed in the
asset and included in other income in the statement of profit and loss. For purchased or originated credit-impaired
CERC Tariff Regulations.
(POCI) financial assets interest income is recognized by calculating the credit-adjusted EIR and applying that rate to the
Revenue from sale of energy is accounted for based on tariff rates approved by the CERC (except items indicated as amortized cost of the asset.
provisional) as modified by the orders of Appellate Tribunal for Electricity to the extent applicable. In case of power
Insurance claims for loss of profit are accounted for in the year of acceptance. Other insurance claims are accounted
stations where the tariff rates are yet to be approved/items indicated provisional by the CERC in their orders, provisional
for based on certainty of realization.
rates are adopted considering the applicable CERC Tariff Regulations. Revenue from sale of energy is recognized once
Revenue from rentals and operating leases is recognized on an accrual basis in accordance with the substance of the
the electricity has been delivered to the beneficiary and is measured through a regular review of usage meters.
relevant agreement.
Beneficiaries are billed on a periodic and regular basis. As at each reporting date, revenue from sale of energy includes
an accrual for sales delivered to beneficiaries but not yet billed i.e. contract assets/ unbilled revenue. The interest/surcharge on late payment/overdue trade receivables for sale of energy is recognized when no significant
uncertainty as to measurability or collectability exists.
The incentives/disincentives are accounted for based on the norms notified/approved by the CERC as per principles
enunciated in Ind AS 115 – ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’. In cases of power stations where the same have Interest/surcharge recoverable on advances to contractors and suppliers as well as warranty claims wherever there is
not been notified/approved, incentives/disincentives are accounted for on provisional basis. uncertainty of realization/acceptance are not treated as accrued and are therefore, accounted for on receipt/acceptance.
Part of revenue from energy sale where CERC tariff Regulations are not applicable is recognized based on the rates, Dividend income is recognized in profit or loss only when the right to receive is established, it is probable that the
terms & conditions mutually agreed with the beneficiaries and trading of power through power exchanges. economic benefits associated with the dividend will flow to the Company, and the amount of the dividend can be
measured reliably.
Exchange differences arising from settlement/translation of monetary items denominated in foreign currency to the
extent recoverable from or payable to the beneficiaries in subsequent periods as per the CERC Tariff Regulations are
14. Employee benefits
accounted as ‘Regulatory deferred account balances’ and such balances are adjusted in the year in which the same
becomes recoverable/payable to the beneficiaries. 14.1. Defined contribution plans
A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan under which an entity pays fixed contributions to
312 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 313
separate entities and will have no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts. Obligations for contributions 14.4. Short-term benefits
to defined contribution plans are recognized as an employee benefits expense in statement of profit and loss in the
Short-term employee benefit obligations are measured on an undiscounted basis and are expensed as the related
period during which services are rendered by employees. Prepaid contributions are recognized as an asset to the
service is provided.
extent that a cash refund or a reduction in future payments is available. Contributions to a defined contribution plan
that are due after more than 12 months after the end of the period in which the employees render the service are A liability is recognized for the amount expected to be paid under performance related pay if the Company has a
discounted to their present value. present legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of past service provided by the employee and the
obligation can be estimated reliably.
For detailed disclosure on Company’s defined contribution schemes, refer note no 56.
14.2. Defined benefit plans 15. Income tax
A defined benefit plan is a post-employment benefit plan other than a defined contribution plan. The Company’s Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax. Current tax expense is recognized in statement of profit and
liability towards gratuity, pension scheme at two of the stations in respect of taken over employees from the erstwhile loss except to the extent that it relates to items recognized directly in OCI or equity, in which case it is recognized in OCI
state government power utility, post-retirement medical facility(PRMF), baggage allowance for settlement at home or equity, respectively.
town after retirement, farewell gift on retirement and provident fund scheme to the extent of interest liability on
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year computed as per the provisions of Income
provident fund contribution are in the nature of defined benefit plans.
Tax Act, 1961, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period, and any adjustment
For detailed disclosure on Company’s defined benefit schemes, refer note no 56. to tax payable in respect of previous years.
The Company’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating Deferred tax is recognized using the balance sheet method, on temporary differences between the carrying amounts
the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods; of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the tax bases of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax is
that benefit is discounted to determine its present value. The fair value of any plan assets is deducted. The discount measured at the tax rates that are expected to be applied to temporary differences when they materialize, based on
rate is based on the prevailing market yields of Indian government securities as at the reporting date that have maturity the laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are
dates approximating the terms of the Company’s obligations and that are denominated in the same currency in which offset if there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against the current tax liabilities, and they relate
the benefits are expected to be paid. to income taxes levied by the same tax authority.
The actuarial calculation is performed annually by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method. When Deferred tax is recognized in statement of profit and loss except to the extent that it relates to items recognized
the calculation results in a benefit to the Company, the recognized asset is limited to the present value of economic directly in OCI or equity, in which case it is recognized in OCI or equity, respectively.
benefits available in the form of any future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan. An
Deferred tax liability is recognized for all taxable temporary differences, except when the deferred tax liability arises
economic benefit is available to the Company if it is realizable during the life of the plan, or on settlement of the plan
from the initial recognition of goodwill or an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and,
liabilities. Remeasurement comprising of actuarial gain and losses, return on plan assets ( excluding the amount included
at the time of transaction, (i) affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss and (ii) does not give rise to equal
in net interest on the net defined liability) & effect of asset ceiling ( excluding the amount included in net interest on
taxable and deductible temporary differences.
the net defined liability) and the same are recognized in the Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) in the period in which
they arise. A deferred tax asset is recognized for all deductible temporary differences to the extent that it is probable that future
taxable profits will be available against which the deductible temporary difference can be utilized. Deferred tax assets
Past service costs are recognized in statement of profit and loss on the earlier of the date of the plan amendment or
are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the sufficient
curtailment, and the date that the Company recognizes related restructuring costs. If a plan amendment, curtailment
taxable profits will be available in future to allow all or part of deferred tax assets to be utilized.
or settlement occurs, the current service cost and the net interest for the period after the re-measurement are
determined using the assumptions used for the re-measurement. Deferred tax assets include Minimum Alternative Tax (MAT) paid in accordance with the tax laws in India, which is likely
to give future economic benefits in the form of availability of set off against future income tax liability. MAT credit is
14.3. Other long-term employee benefits
recognized as deferred tax asset in the balance sheet when the asset can be measured reliably and it is probable that
Benefits under the Company’s leave encashment, long-service award and economic rehabilitation scheme constitute the future taxable profit will be available against which MAT credit can be utilized.
other long term employee benefits.
When there is uncertainty regarding income tax treatments, the Company assesses whether a tax authority is likely to
The Company’s net obligation in respect of these long-term employee benefits is calculated separately for each plan by accept an uncertain tax treatment. If it concludes that the tax authority is unlikely to accept an uncertain tax treatment,
estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior the effect of the uncertainty on taxable income, tax bases and unused tax losses and unused tax credits is recognized.
periods; that benefit is discounted to determine its present value and the fair value of any related assets is deducted. The effect of the uncertainty is recognized using the method that, in each case, best reflects the outcome of the
The discount rate is based on the prevailing market yields of Indian government securities as at the reporting date that uncertainty: the most likely outcome or the expected value. For each case, the Company evaluates whether to consider
have maturity dates approximating the terms of the Company’s obligations and that are denominated in the same each uncertain tax treatment separately, or in conjunction with another or several other uncertain tax treatments,
currency in which the benefits are expected to be paid. based on the approach that best prefixes the resolution of uncertainty.
The actuarial calculation is performed annually by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
16. Leases
Remeasurement comprising actuarial gain and losses, return on plan assets ( excluding the amount included in net
interest on the net defined liability) & effect of asset ceiling ( excluding the amount included in net interest on the net 16.1. As lessee
defined liability) and the same are recognized in statement of profit and loss account in the period in which they arise.
The Company assesses whether a contract contains a lease, at inception of a contract. A contract is, or contains, a lease
The obligations are presented as current liabilities in the balance sheet if the entity does not have an unconditional if the contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration.
right to defer settlement for at least twelve months after the reporting period, regardless of when the actual settlement To assess whether a contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset, the Company assesses whether:
is expected to occur. (1) the contact involves the use of an identified asset (2) the Company has substantially all of the economic benefits
314 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 315
from use of the asset through the period of the lease and (3) the Company has the right to direct the use of the asset. Accounting for operating leases
The Company recognizes a right-of-use asset and a corresponding lease liability for all lease arrangements in which it Where the Company determines a long term PPA to be or to contain a lease and where the Company retains the
is a lessee, except for leases with a term of twelve months or less (short-term leases) and leases for low value underlying principal risks and rewards of ownership of the power plant, the arrangement is considered an operating lease.
assets. For these short-term and leases for low value underlying assets, the Company recognizes the lease payments as
For operating leases, the power plant is capitalized as property, plant and equipment and depreciated over its economic
an operating expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
life. Rental income from operating leases is recognized on a straight line basis over the term of the arrangement.
Certain lease arrangements include the options to extend or terminate the lease before the end of the lease term.
Right-of use assets and lease liabilities include these options when it is reasonably certain that the option to extend 17. Impairment of non-financial assets
the lease will be exercised/option to terminate the lease will not be exercised.
The carrying amounts of the Company’s non-financial assets are reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether
The right-of-use assets (other than land and buildings) are initially recognized at cost, which comprises the initial there is any indication of impairment considering the provisions of Ind AS 36 - ‘Impairment of Assets’. If any such
amount of the lease liability adjusted for any lease payments made at or prior to the commencement date of the lease indication exists, then the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated.
plus any initial direct costs less any lease incentives. They are subsequently measured at cost less accumulated
The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is the higher of its fair value less costs of disposal and its
depreciation/amortization and impairment losses and adjusted for any reassessment of lease liabilities.
value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a
Right-of-use assets are depreciated/amortized from the commencement date to the end of the useful life of the pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the
underlying asset, if the lease transfers ownership of the underlying asset by the end of lease term or if the cost of right- asset. For the purpose of impairment testing, assets that cannot be tested individually are grouped together into the
of-use assets reflects that the purchase option will be exercised. Otherwise, Right-of-use assets are depreciated/ smallest group of assets that generates cash inflows from continuing use that are largely independent of the cash
amortized from the commencement date on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the lease term and useful life of inflows of other assets or groups of assets (the ‘cash-generating unit’, or “CGU”).
the underlying asset.
An impairment loss is recognized if the carrying amount of an asset or its CGU exceeds its estimated recoverable
Right-of-use assets are evaluated for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their amount. Impairment losses are recognized in the statement of profit and loss. Impairment losses recognized in respect
carrying amounts may not be recoverable. For the purpose of impairment testing, the recoverable amount (i.e. the of CGUs are reduced from the carrying amounts of the assets of the CGU.
higher of the fair value less costs of disposal and the value-in-use) is determined on an individual asset basis unless the
Impairment losses recognized in prior periods are assessed at each reporting date for any indications that the loss has
asset does not generate cash flows that are largely independent of those from other assets. In such cases, the recoverable
decreased or no longer exists. An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to
amount is determined for the Cash Generating Unit (CGU) to which the asset belongs.
determine the recoverable amount. An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount
The lease liability is initially measured at amortized cost at the present value of the future lease payments. In calculating does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of accumulated depreciation or
the present value, lease payments are discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease or, if not readily amortization, if no impairment loss had been recognized.
determinable, using the incremental borrowing rate. Lease liabilities are re-measured with a corresponding adjustment
to the related right-of-use asset if the Company changes its assessment whether it will exercise an extension or a 18. Operating segments
termination option.
In accordance with Ind AS 108-‘Operating segments’, the operating segments used to present segment information are
16.2. As lessor identified on the basis of internal reports used by the Company’s management to allocate resources to the segments
and assess their performance. The Board of Directors is collectively the Company’s ‘Chief Operating Decision Maker’ or
At the inception of an arrangement, the Company determines whether such an arrangement is or contains a lease. A
‘CODM’ within the meaning of Ind AS 108. The indicators used for internal reporting purposes may evolve in connection
specific asset is subject of a lease if fulfillment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of that specified asset. An
with performance assessment measures put in place.
arrangement conveys the right to use the asset if the arrangement conveys to the customer the right to control the use
of the underlying asset. Arrangements that do not take the legal form of a lease but convey rights to customers/
19. Business Combinations
suppliers to use an asset in return for a payment or a series of payments are identified as either finance leases or
operating leases. (i)Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition accounting method as at the date of the acquisition,
which is the date at which control is transferred to the Company. The consideration transferred in the acquisition and
When the Company is an intermediate lessor, it accounts for its interests in the head lease and the sub lease separately.
the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recognized at fair values on their acquisition date. Goodwill
It assesses the lease classification of a sub-lease with reference to the right-of-use assets arising from the head lease,
is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the consideration transferred over the net identifiable assets acquired
not with reference to the underlying asset .
and liabilities assumed. Where the fair value of net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed exceed the
Accounting for finance leases consideration transferred, after reassessing the fair values of the net assets and contingent liabilities, the excess is
recognized as capital reserve. Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred.
Where the Company determines a long term Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) to be or to contain a lease and where
the off taker has the principal risk and rewards of ownership of the power plant through its contractual arrangements (ii)Business combinations involving entities that are controlled by the Company are accounted for using the pooling of
with the Company, the arrangement is considered a finance lease. Capacity payments are apportioned between capital interests method wherein the assets and liabilities of the combining entities are reflected at their carrying amounts
repayments relating to the provision of the plant, finance income and service income. The finance income element of and no adjustments are made to reflect fair values, or recognise any new assets or liabilities. The only adjustments that
the capacity payment is recognized as revenue, using a rate of return specific to the plant to give a constant periodic are made are to harmonise accounting policies.
rate of return on the net investment in each period. The service income element of the capacity payment is the
The financial information in the financial statements in respect of prior periods is restated as if the business combination
difference between the total capacity payment and the amount recognized as finance income and capital repayments
had occurred from the beginning of the preceding period in the financial statements, irrespective of the actual date of
and recognized as revenue as it is earned.
the combination. However, where the business combination had occurred after that date, the prior period information
The amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recorded in the balance sheet as financial assets, classified as is restated only from that date.
‘Finance lease receivables’, at the amount equal to the net investment in the lease.
316 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 317
The balance of the retained earnings appearing in the financial statements of the transferor is aggregated with the Debt instrument at FVTPL (Fair value through profit or loss)
corresponding balance appearing in the financial statements of the transferee. The identity of the reserves is preserved
FVTPL is a residual category for debt instruments. Any debt instrument, which does not meet the criteria for
and the reserves of the transferor become the reserves of the transferee. The difference, if any, between the amounts
categorization as at amortized cost or as FVTOCI, is classified as at FVTPL.
recorded as share capital issued plus any additional consideration in the form of cash or other assets and the amount
of share capital of the transferor is transferred to capital reserve and is presented separately from other capital reserves. In addition, the Company may elect to classify a debt instrument, which otherwise meets amortized cost or FVTOCI
criteria, as at FVTPL. However, such election is allowed only if doing so reduces or eliminates a measurement or
20. Dividends recognition inconsistency (referred to as ‘accounting mismatch’). Debt instruments included within the FVTPL category
are measured at fair value with all changes recognized in the statement of profit and loss. Interest income on such
Dividends and interim dividends payable to the Company’s shareholders are recognized as changes in equity in the
investments is presented under ‘Other income’.
period in which they are approved by the shareholders and the Board of Directors respectively.
Business model assessment
21. Material prior period errors
The Company holds financial assets which arise from its ordinary course of business and investment property. The
Material prior period errors are corrected retrospectively by restating the comparative amounts for the prior periods objective of the business model for these financial assets is to collect the amounts due from the Company’s receivables
presented in which the error occurred. If the error occurred before the earliest period presented, the opening balances and to earn contractual interest income on the amounts collected.
of assets, liabilities and equity for the earliest period presented, are restated.
Investment in Equity instruments
22. Financial instruments All equity investments in entities other than subsidiaries and joint venture companies are measured at fair value.
Equity instruments which are held for trading are classified as at FVTPL. For all other equity instruments, the Company
A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity
decides to classify the same either as at FVTOCI or FVTPL. The Company makes such election on an instrument by
instrument of another entity. The Company recognizes a financial asset or a financial liability only when it becomes
instrument basis. The classification is made on initial recognition and is irrevocable.
party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
If the Company decides to classify an equity instrument as at FVTOCI, then all fair value changes on the instrument,
22.1. Financial assets
excluding dividends, are recognized in the OCI. There is no recycling of the amounts from OCI to statement of profit
Initial recognition and measurement and loss, even on sale/ disposal of investments. However, the Company may transfer the cumulative gain or loss within
equity on sale / disposal of the investments.
All financial assets are recognized at fair value on initial recognition, except for trade receivables which are initially
measured at transaction price. Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition of financial assets, Equity instruments included within the FVTPL category are measured at fair value with all changes recognized in the
which are not valued at fair value through profit or loss, are added to the fair value on initial recognition. statement of profit and loss. Dividend on such investments is presented under ‘Other income’.
Subsequent measurement Equity investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures companies are accounted at cost less impairment, if any.
Debt instruments at amortized cost The Company reviews the carrying value of investments at each reporting date to determine whether there is any
indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, then the recoverable amount of the investment is estimated. If
A ‘debt instrument’ is measured at the amortized cost if both the following conditions are met:
the recoverable amount is less than the carrying amount, the impairment loss is recognized in the statement of profit
(a) The asset is held within a business model whose objective is to hold assets for collecting contractual cash flows, and loss.
and
De-recognition
(b) Contractual terms of the asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and
A financial asset (or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset or part of a Group of similar financial assets) is
interest (SPPI) on the principal amount outstanding.
primarily de-recognized (i.e. removed from the Company’s balance sheet) when:
After initial measurement, such financial assets are subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest
• The rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired, or
rate (EIR) method. Amortized cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees
or costs that are an integral part of the EIR. The EIR amortization is included in finance income in the statement of • The Company has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset or has assumed an obligation to pay
profit and loss. The losses arising from impairment are recognized in the statement of profit and loss. This category the received cash flows in full without material delay to a third party under a ‘pass-through’ arrangement~(cid:31) and
generally applies to trade and other receivables. either (a) the Company has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, or (b) the Company
has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred
Debt instrument at FVTOCI (Fair value through OCI)
control of the asset.
A ‘debt instrument’ is classified as at the FVTOCI if both of the following criteria are met:
The difference between the carrying amount and the amount of consideration received/receivable is recognized in the
(a) The objective of the business model is achieved both by collecting contractual cash flows and selling the financial statement of profit and loss except for equity instruments classified as at FVTOCI, where such differences are recorded
assets, and in OCI.
(b) The asset’s contractual cash flows represent SPPI Impairment of financial assets
Debt instruments included within the FVTOCI category are measured initially as well as at each reporting date at fair In accordance with Ind AS 109-‘Financial instruments’, the Company applies expected credit loss (ECL) model for
value. Fair value movements are recognized in the OCI. However, the Company recognizes interest income, impairment measurement and recognition of impairment loss on the following financial assets and credit risk exposure:
losses & reversals and foreign exchange gain or loss in the statement of profit and loss. On de-recognition of the asset,
(a) Financial assets that are debt instruments, and are measured at amortized cost e.g., loans, debt securities,
cumulative gain or loss previously recognized in OCI is reclassified from the equity to the statement of profit and loss.
deposits and bank balance.
Interest earned whilst holding FVTOCI debt instrument is reported as interest income using the EIR method.
318 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 319
(b) Financial assets that are debt instruments and are measured as at FVTOCI. De-recognition
(c) Lease receivables under Ind AS 116. A financial liability is derecognized when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires. When
an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms
(d) Trade receivables, unbilled revenue and contract assets under Ind AS 115.
of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as the de-recognition of
(e) Loan commitments which are not measured as at FVTPL. the original liability and the recognition of a new liability. The difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognized
in the statement of profit and loss.
(f) Financial guarantee contracts which are not measured as at FVTPL.
22.3. Interest rate benchmark reform
For trade receivables and contract assets/unbilled revenue, the Company applies the simplified approach required by
Ind AS 109 Financial Instruments, which requires lifetime expected losses to be recognized from initial recognition. When the basis for determining the contractual cash flows of a financial asset or financial liability measured at amortised
cost is changed as a result of interest rate benchmark reform, the Company updated the effective interest rate of the
For recognition of impairment loss on other financial assets and risk exposure (other than purchased or originated
financial asset or financial liability to reflect the change that is required by the reform. A change in the basis for
credit impaired financial assets), the Company determines that whether there has been a significant increase in the
determining the contractual cash flows is required by interest rate benchmark reform if the following conditions are
credit risk since initial recognition. If credit risk has not increased significantly, 12-month ECL is used to provide for
met:
impairment loss. However, if credit risk has increased significantly, lifetime ECL is used. If, in a subsequent period,
credit quality of the instrument improves such that there is no longer a significant increase in credit risk since initial – the change is necessary as a direct consequence of the reform; and
recognition, then the entity reverts to recognizing impairment loss allowance based on 12 month ECL.
– the new basis for determining the contractual cash flows is economically equivalent to the previous basis – i.e.
For purchased or originated credit impaired financial assets, a loss allowance is recognized for the cumulative changes the basis immediately before the change.
in lifetime expected credited losses since initial recognition.
When changes were made to a financial asset or financial liability in addition to changes to the basis for determining
22.2. Financial liabilities the contractual cash flows required by interest rate benchmark reform, the Company first updates the effective interest
rate of the financial asset or financial liability to reflect the change that is required by interest rate benchmark reform
Initial recognition and measurement
and does not recognise a modification gain or loss in the profit & loss statement. After that, the Company applies the
Financial liabilities are classified, at initial recognition, as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss and
policies on accounting for modifications to the additional changes.
financial liabilities at amortized cost, as appropriate. All financial liabilities are recognized initially at fair value and, in
22.4. Financial guarantee contracts
the case of liabilities subsequently measured at amortized cost net of directly attributable transaction cost. The
Company’s financial liabilities include trade and other payables, borrowings including bank overdrafts, financial guarantee Financial guarantee contracts issued by the Company are those contracts that require a payment to be made to reimburse
contracts and derivative financial instruments. the holder for a loss it incurs because the specified debtor fails to make a payment when due in accordance with the
terms of a debt instrument. Financial guarantee contracts are recognized initially as a liability at fair value, adjusted for
Subsequent measurement
transaction costs that are directly attributable to the issuance of the guarantee. Subsequently, the liability is measured
The measurement of financial liabilities depends on their classification, as described below:
at the higher of the amount of loss allowance determined as per impairment requirements of Ind AS 109 - ‘Financial
Financial liabilities at amortized cost Instruments’ and the amount recognized less the cumulative amount of income recognized in accordance with the
principles of Ind AS 115 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’.
After initial measurement, such financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortized cost using the EIR method.
Gains and losses are recognized in statement of profit and loss when the liabilities are derecognized as well as through 22.5. Derivative financial instruments
the EIR amortization process Amortized cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition
Initial recognition and subsequent measurement
and fees or costs that are an integral part of the EIR. The EIR amortization is included in finance costs in the statement
The Company uses derivative financial instruments, such as forward currency contracts and interest rate swaps to
of profit and loss. This category generally applies to borrowings, trade payables and other contractual liabilities.
hedge its foreign currency risks and interest rate risks of foreign currency loans. Such derivative financial instruments
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
are initially recognized at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss include financial liabilities held for trading and financial liabilities measured at fair value. Derivatives are carried as financial assets when the fair value is positive and as financial liabilities
designated upon initial recognition as at fair value through profit or loss. Financial liabilities are classified as held for when the fair value is negative. Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives are taken to
trading if they are incurred for the purpose of repurchasing in the near term. This category also includes derivative statement of profit and loss.
financial instruments entered into by the Company that are not designated as hedging instruments in hedge relationships
22.6. Offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities
as defined by Ind AS 109. Separated embedded derivatives are also classified as held for trading unless they are designated
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is presented in the balance sheet if there is a
as effective hedging instruments.
currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognized amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, to
Gains or losses on liabilities held for trading are recognized in the statement of profit and loss.
realize the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
Financial liabilities designated upon initial recognition at fair value through profit or loss are designated at the initial
23. Non -Current Assets Held for Sale
date of recognition, and only if the criteria in Ind AS 109 are satisfied. For liabilities designated as FVTPL, fair value
The Company classifies non-current assets and disposal groups as held for sale if their carrying amounts will be recovered
gains/losses attributable to changes in own credit risk is recognized in OCI. These gains/losses are not subsequently
principally through a sale rather than through continuing use and a sale is considered highly probable.
transferred to profit and loss. However, the Company may transfer the cumulative gain or loss within equity on disposal.
All other changes in fair value of such liability are recognized in the statement of profit and loss. The Company has not Management must be committed to the sale, which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale
designated any financial liability as at fair value through profit and loss. within one year from the date of classification as held for sale, and actions required to complete the plan of sale
should indicate that it is unlikely that significant changes to the plan will be made or that the plan will be withdrawn.
320 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 321
Non-Current Assets held for sale and disposal groups are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and the fair 6. Leases not in legal form of lease
value less cost of disposal.
Significant judgment is required to apply lease accounting rules as per Ind AS 116 in determining whether an
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets once classified as held for sale are not depreciated or amortized. arrangement contains a lease. In assessing arrangements entered into by the Company, management has exercised
judgment to evaluate the right to use the underlying asset, substance of the transactions including legally
In circumstances, where an item of property, plant and equipment and intangible asset is permanently abandoned
enforceable agreements and other significant terms and conditions of the arrangements to conclude whether
and retired from active use, however criteria of ‘non-current assets held for sale’ as above are not met, such items are
the arrangement meets the criteria as per Ind AS 116.
not classified as held for sale and continued to be depreciated over their revised useful lives, as assessed. Such assets
are evaluated for impairment in accordance with material accounting policy no. C.17. 7. Assets held for sale
D. Use of estimates and management judgements Significant judgment is required to apply the accounting of non-current assets held for sale under Ind AS 105 -
‘Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations’. In assessing the applicability, management has
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that
exercised judgment to evaluate the availability of the asset for immediate sale, management’s commitment for
may impact the application of accounting policies and the reported value of assets, liabilities, revenue expenses and
the sale and probability of sale within one year to conclude if their carrying amount will be recovered principally
related disclosures concerning the items involved as well as contingent assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date.
through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
The estimates and management’s judgments are based on previous experience & other factors considered reasonable
and prudent in the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates. 8. Regulatory deferral account balances
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are Recognition of regulatory deferral account balances involves significant judgments including about future tariff
recognized in the period in which the estimates are revised and in any future periods affected. regulations since these are based on estimation of the amounts expected to be recoverable/payable through
tariff in future.
In order to enhance understanding of the financial statements, information about significant areas of estimation,
uncertainty and critical judgments in applying accounting policies that have the most significant effect on the amounts 9. Provisions and contingencies
recognized in the financial statements is as under:
The assessments undertaken in recognizing provisions and contingencies have been made in accordance with
1. Formulation of accounting policies Ind AS 37-‘Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets’. The evaluation of the likelihood of the contingent
events require best judgment by management regarding the probability of exposure to potential loss. Should
The accounting policies are formulated in a manner that results in financial statements containing relevant and
circumstances change following unforeseeable developments, this likelihood could alter.
reliable information about the transactions, other events and conditions to which they apply. Those policies
need not be applied when the effect of applying them is immaterial. 10. Impairment test of investments in Subsidiaries and Joint Venture Companies
2. Useful life of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets The recoverable amount of investment in subsidiaries and joint venture companies is based on estimates and
assumptions regarding in particular the future cash flows associated with the operations of the investee
The estimated useful life of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets is based on a number of factors
Company. Any changes in these assumptions may have a material impact on the measurement of the recoverable
including the effects of obsolescence, demand, competition and other economic factors (such as the stability of
amount and could result in impairment.
the industry and known technological advances) and the level of maintenance expenditures required to obtain
the expected future cash flows from the asset. 11. Income taxes
Useful life of the assets of the generation of electricity business and integrated coal mines (where tariff is regulated) Significant estimates are involved in determining the provision for current and deferred tax, including amount
is determined by the CERC Tariff Regulations in accordance with Schedule II of the Companies Act, 2013. expected to be paid/recovered for uncertain tax positions.
3. Recoverable amount of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
The recoverable amount of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets is based on estimates and
assumptions regarding in particular the expected market outlook and future cash flows associated with the
power plants. Any changes in these assumptions may have a material impact on the measurement of the
recoverable amount and could result in impairment.
4. Defined benefit plans and long-term employee benefits
Employee benefit obligations are measured on the basis of actuarial assumptions which include mortality and
withdrawal rates as well as assumptions concerning future developments in discount rates, the rate of salary
increases and the inflation rate. The Company considers that the assumptions used to measure its obligations
are appropriate and documented. However, any changes in these assumptions may have a material impact on
the resulting calculations.
5. Revenues
The Company records revenue from sale of energy based on tariff rates approved by the CERC as modified by the
orders of Appellate Tribunal for Electricity, as per principles enunciated under Ind AS 115. However, in cases
where tariff rates are yet to be approved, provisional rates are adopted considering the applicable CERC Tariff
Regulations.
322 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 323
2. Non-current assets - Property, plant and equipment As at 31 March 2023 ` Crore
As at 31 March 2024 ````` Crore Particulars Gross block Depreciation, amortization and impairment Net block
Particulars Gross block Depreciation, amortization and impairment Net block As at Additions Deductions/ As at As at For Deductions/ Upto As at
As at Additions Deductions/ As at As at For Deductions/ Upto As at 1 April adjustments 31 March 1 April the year adjustments 31 March 31 March
1 April adjustments 31 March 1 April the year adjustments 31 March 31 March 2022 2023 2022 2023 2023
2023 2024 2023 2024 2024 Land (including
Land (including development expenses)
development expenses) Freehold 7,707.94 52.70 (708.74) 7,051.90 - - - - 7,051.90
Freehold 7,051.90 - (393.69) 6,658.21 - - - - 6,658.21 Right of use 2,830.07 170.43 (438.84) 2,561.66 499.53 123.10 (214.12) 408.51 2,153.15
Right of use 2,561.66 34.94 (39.16) 2,557.44 408.51 110.58 (11.36) 507.73 2,049.71 Under submergence 806.88 4.78 - 811.66 189.31 31.43 - 220.74 590.92
(refer footnote (d) below)
Under submergence 811.66 2.90 - 814.56 220.74 31.83 - 252.57 561.99
(refer footnote (d) below) Right of use - Coal
Right of use - Coal Bearing 4,248.80 273.57 - 4,522.37 451.08 144.30 - 595.38 3,926.99 Bearing Area Land 4,022.04 226.76 - 4,248.80 330.09 120.99 - 451.08 3,797.72
Area Land Roads, bridges, culverts 1,884.85 226.17 (27.27) 2,083.75 345.02 79.12 (2.70) 421.44 1,662.31
Roads, bridges, culverts 2,083.75 376.99 (6.26) 2,454.48 421.44 93.94 (6.26) 509.12 1,945.36 and helipads
and helipads Building
Building Freehold
Freehold Main plant 8,588.86 412.09 (41.12) 8,959.83 1,607.62 324.03 (3.72) 1,927.93 7,031.90
Main plant 8,959.83 414.53 (8.70) 9,365.66 1,927.93 342.56 - 2,270.49 7,095.17 Others 6,415.87 775.89 (88.64) 7,103.12 1,214.91 274.59 (25.29) 1,464.21 5,638.91
Others 7,103.12 722.48 (11.82) 7,813.78 1,464.21 312.19 (10.36) 1,766.04 6,047.74 Right of use 39.27 2.18 (1.06) 40.39 20.31 5.42 (0.87) 24.86 15.53
Right of use 40.39 1.54 (3.10) 38.83 24.86 5.31 (3.10) 27.07 11.76 Temporary erection 38.55 3.87 (8.36) 34.06 36.95 3.39 (7.85) 32.49 1.57
Temporary erections 34.06 0.77 (0.10) 34.73 32.49 1.10 (0.03) 33.56 1.17 Water supply, drainage 951.84 145.99 (8.98) 1,088.85 232.98 47.96 (0.85) 280.09 808.76
Water supply, drainage 1,088.85 188.90 (0.98) 1,276.77 280.09 54.19 (0.61) 333.67 943.10 and sewerage system
and sewerage system Hydraulic works, barrages, 4,463.93 2.08 22.26 4,488.27 1,530.19 245.72 - 1,775.91 2,712.36
Hydraulic works, barrages, 4,488.27 9.22 1.61 4,499.10 1,775.91 247.28 - 2,023.19 2,475.91 dams, tunnels and power
dams, tunnels and power channel
channel MGR track and 3,798.47 1,553.54 (0.54) 5,351.47 758.90 248.61 (0.09) 1,007.42 4,344.05
MGR track and signalling system 5,351.47 292.62 (0.23) 5,643.86 1,007.42 306.05 - 1,313.47 4,330.39 signalling system
Railway siding 4,010.76 442.72 - 4,453.48 925.69 233.94 - 1,159.63 3,293.85 Railway siding 3,687.71 323.81 (0.76) 4,010.76 716.09 209.72 (0.12) 925.69 3,085.07
Earth dam reservoir 1,114.48 276.61 - 1,391.09 178.01 64.54 - 242.55 1,148.54 Earth dam reservoir 545.78 568.70 - 1,114.48 143.57 34.44 - 178.01 936.47
Plant and equipment Plant and equipment
Owned 2,13,374.50 26,475.95 (939.59) 2,38,910.86 61,463.30 13,086.62 (962.15) 73,587.77 1,65,323.09 Owned 2,04,396.12 24,541.79 (15,563.41) 2,13,374.50 51,899.35 12,324.27 (2,760.32) 61,463.30 1,51,911.20
Right of use 85.78 - - 85.78 37.88 4.75 - 42.63 43.15 Right of use 85.78 - - 85.78 33.13 4.75 - 37.88 47.90
Mining Properties 1,365.07 823.71 (280.90) 1,907.88 203.69 35.70 (24.97) 214.42 1,693.46 Mining Properties 1,285.97 79.10 - 1,365.07 133.48 70.21 - 203.69 1,161.38
Site restoration cost 253.46 190.07 (32.22) 411.31 22.61 9.49 - 32.10 379.21 Site restoration cost 253.46 - - 253.46 15.80 6.81 - 22.61 230.85
Furniture and fixtures 918.28 104.39 (14.44) 1,008.23 344.65 69.68 (12.54) 401.79 606.44 Furniture and fixtures 848.06 77.47 (7.25) 918.28 286.61 64.08 (6.04) 344.65 573.63
Vehicles including
Vehicles including
speedboats /helicopter speedboats /helicopter
Owned 19.22 5.63 (1.16) 23.69 8.62 1.58 (0.69) 9.51 14.18 Owned 14.61 4.15 0.46 19.22 7.18 1.34 0.10 8.62 10.60
Right of use 56.32 1.76 (48.93) 9.15 18.48 4.35 (16.56) 6.27 2.88 Right of use 26.58 49.25 (19.51) 56.32 22.23 15.40 (19.15) 18.48 37.84
Office equipment 424.29 91.70 (14.37) 501.62 205.59 55.54 (11.15) 249.98 251.64
Office equipment 501.62 115.89 (14.57) 602.94 249.98 74.06 (18.88) 305.16 297.78
EDP, WP machines and 506.99 90.68 (40.49) 557.18 376.81 73.31 (40.07) 410.05 147.13
EDP, WP machines and satcom 557.18 133.06 (107.14) 583.10 410.05 82.18 (78.13) 414.10 169.00
equipment satcom equipment
Construction equipment 309.68 24.68 (3.92) 330.44 127.91 23.48 (3.78) 147.61 182.83 Construction equipment 261.77 49.46 (1.55) 309.68 106.80 22.58 (1.47) 127.91 181.77
Electrical installations 2,328.86 178.08 (2.44) 2,504.50 539.46 137.49 (0.43) 676.52 1,827.98 Electrical installations 2,058.29 282.21 (11.64) 2,328.86 416.58 127.31 (4.43) 539.46 1,789.40
Communication equipment 122.64 17.50 (3.60) 136.54 66.73 10.35 (1.84) 75.24 61.30
Communication equipment 136.54 25.61 27.70 189.85 75.24 17.51 5.86 98.61 91.24
Hospital equipment 62.84 4.53 (0.19) 67.18 25.71 7.31 (0.16) 32.86 34.32
Hospital equipment 67.18 3.30 (0.09) 70.39 32.86 6.79 (0.06) 39.59 30.80
Laboratory and workshop 234.54 8.92 (0.10) 243.36 58.46 12.81 (0.04) 71.23 172.13
Laboratory and workshop 243.36 12.34 255.70 71.23 12.97 - 84.20 171.50
equipment equipment
Assets for ash utilisation 57.84 2.95 - 60.79 - - - - 60.79
Assets for ash utilisation 60.79 10.16 70.95 - - 70.95
Less: Adjusted from fly ash 57.84 2.95 - 60.79 - - - - 60.79
Less: Adjusted from fly ash 60.79 10.16 70.95 - - 70.95
utilisation reserve fund utilisation reserve fund
Total 2,69,166.05 31,132.26 (1,880.13) 2,98,418.18 72,724.34 15,514.46 (1,144.05) 87,094.75 2,11,323.43 Total 2,56,364.00 29,765.75 (16,963.70) 2,69,166.05 61,279.93 14,544.59 (3,100.18) 72,724.34 1,96,441.71
324 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 325
a) The conveyancing of the title to 10,194.85 acres of freehold land of value ````` 2,177.78 crore (31 March 2023: 10,301.23 n) Refer Note 75 (C) (a) for disclosure of contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment.
acres of value ` 2,218.50 crore), buildings and structures of value ````` 4.97 crore (31 March 2023: ` 4.97 crore) and also
o) Deduction/adjustments from gross block and depreciation and amortization for the year includes:
execution of lease agreements for 9,114.64 acres of right of use land of value ````` 814.19 crore (31 March 2023: 6,487.36
````` Crore
acres of value ` 729.02 crore) in favour of the Company are awaiting completion of legal formalities.
Particulars Gross block Depreciation, amortization
b) Land includes 1,146.67 acres of freehold land of value ````` 22.13 crore (31 March 2023: 1,295.40 acres of value ` 29.56
and impairment
crore) and 377.71 acres of right of use land of value ````` 10.55 crore (31 March 2023: 376.57 acres of value ` 3.07 crore) not
in possession of the Company. The Company is taking appropriate steps for repossession of the same. For the year ended For the year ended
c) Land-freehold includes an amount of ````` 263.92 crore (31 March 2023: ` 263.92 crore) deposited with various authorities 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March
in respect of land in possession which is subject to adjustment on final determination of price. 2024 2023 2024 2023
d) Gross block of land under submergence represents ````` 635.73 crore (31 March 2023: ` 632.83 crore) of freehold land and Disposal of assets (96.83) (54.54) (92.40) (51.79)
````` 178.83 crore (31 March 2023: ` 178.83 crore) of right of use land. The land has been amortized considering the rate of
Retirement of assets (1,179.31) (1,151.56) (922.83) (922.99)
depreciation provided by the CERC in the tariff regulations and the fact that it will not have any economic value due to
deposit of silt and other foreign materials. Cost adjustments due to exchange differences (4.75) 960.14 - -
e) Possession of land measuring 98 acres (31 March 2023: 98.00 acres) consisting of 79 acres of freehold land (31 March Assets capitalised with retrospective effect/ (32.22) 0.02 - 0.02
2023: 79.00 acres) and 19 acres of right of use land (31 March 2023: 19.00 acres) of value ````` 0.21 crore (31 March 2023: Write back of excess capitalisation
` 0.21 crore) was transferred to Uttar Pradesh Rajya Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Ltd. (erstwhile UPSEB) for a consideration of
Transferred to Investment property-Note 4 (408.42) (465.18) (12.84) -
` 0.21 crore. Pending approval for transfer of the said land, the area and value of this land has been included in the total
land of the Company. The consideration received from erstwhile UPSEB is disclosed under Note 34 - Current liabilities - Transferred to Assets held for sale-Note 21 (110.45) (401.73) (96.56) (299.30)
Other financial liabilities. Transfer of solar assets to NGEL as per BTA - (15,646.73) - (1,625.46)
f) During the previous year, the company entered into with a Business Transfer Agreement (BTA) with NTPC Green Energy Others (48.15) (204.12) (19.42) (200.66)
Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of the company, for transfer of fifteen Renewable Energy (RE) assets of the Company. The
Total (1,880.13) (16,963.70) (1,144.05) (3,100.18)
assets were transferred as at the closing date of transfer being 28 February 2023 at book value pursuant to BTA. Further,
approval for assignment / novation of ROU land pertaining to Rojmal project and Jetsar project , included in the above
p) Exchange differences capitalized in Capital work-in-progress (CWIP) are allocated to various heads of CWIP in the year of
transferred RE Stations, are yet to be consented by the lessor and accordingly retained in the books of the Company, of
capitalisation. Exchange differences in respect of assets already capitalised are disclosed in the ‘Deductions/Adjustments’
area admeasuring 863.25 acres amounting to ````` 18.56 crore (31 March 2023: ` 19.43 crore) included above in the netblock
column of Property, plant and equipment. Asset-wise details of exchange differences and borrowing costs included in
of Land-right of use.
the cost of major heads of CWIP and property, plant and equipment through ‘Addition’ or ‘Deductions/Adjustments’
g) Operations of one of the thermal power station of the Company (460 MW-TTPS) was discontinued w.e.f. the end of 31 column are given below:
March 2021. Some of the assets have been classified as held for sale considering the requirements of Ind AS 105. Carrying
````` Crore
value of remaining assets of the discontinued plant as at 31 March 2024 is ````` 4.59 crore (31 March 2023: ` 120.52 crore).
It is expected that many of the assets are expected to be used in other power plants of the Company. Notwithstanding Particulars For the year ended For the year ended
the above, the net realisable value of the assets of the station has been assessed which is more than its carrying value. 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Exchange Borrowing Exchange Borrowing
h) Operations of one of the thermal power station (220 MW-Kanti) of the Company was discontinued w.e.f. 8 September
2021. Carrying value of remaining assets of the station as at 31 March 2024 is ````` 52.38 crore (31 March 2023: ` 97.61 differences costs differences costs
included in included in included in included in
crore). The net realisable value of the assets of the station has been assessed which is more than its carrying value. Since
PPE/CWIP PPE/CWIP PPE/CWIP PPE/CWIP
the conditions precedent for classification of these assets as held for sale are not completed, these assets have been
continued to be classified under Property, plant and equipment. Building - Freehold
i) Operations of Stage-I (2X110 MW-Barauni) of one of the thermal power stations of the Company, along with auxiliary Main plant 0.10 30.22 1.80 39.83
systems except Coal Handling Plant, Switch yard, Ash dyke and township, was discontinued w.e.f. 31 March 2024. Carrying
Others - 42.84 (0.08) 53.61
value of remaining assets of the station as at 31 March 2024 is ````` 20.31 crore. These assets will be disposed or utilised at
other locations of the Company, subsequent to decommissioning of the Units. The net realisable value of the assets of Hydraulic works, barrages, dams, 1.61 288.10 22.26 267.53
the station has been assessed which is more than its carrying value. Since the conditions precedent for classification of tunnels and power channel
these assets as held for sale are not completed, these assets have been continued to be classified under Property, plant
MGR track and signalling system - 0.08 0.17 3.95
and equipment.
Railway siding - 23.05 - 71.62
j) Refer Note 72 regarding property, plant and equipment under leases.
Plant and equipment 8.58 1,608.23 1,020.44 2,057.72
k) Spare parts of ` 5 lakh and above, stand-by equipment and servicing equipment which meet the definition of property,
plant and equipment are capitalized. Others including pending allocation 1.37 185.64 103.81 291.69
l) Property, plant and equipment costing ` 5,000/- or less, are depreciated fully in the year of acquisition. Total 11.66 2,178.16 1,148.40 2,785.95
m) Refer Note 25 for information on property, plant and equipment pledged as security by the Company.
326 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 327
q) Gross carrying amount of the fully depreciated/amortised property, plant and equipment that are still in use: 3. Non-current assets - Capital work-in-progress
````` Crore As at 31 March 2024 ````` Crore
Particulars As at As at Particulars As at Additions Deductions/ Capitalized As at
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 1 April adjustments 31 March
2023 2024
Land-Right of use 30.87 14.78
Development of land 240.99 50.10 (197.65) 1.95 91.49
Roads, bridges, culverts and helipads 55.18 48.27
Roads, bridges, culverts and helipads 334.48 128.10 (51.08) 346.19 65.31
Main plant building 186.68 176.81
Piling and foundation 424.06 - (286.81) - 137.25
Other building 373.00 312.22
Buildings
Water supply, drainage and sewerage system 48.53 47.40
Freehold
MGR track and signalling system 109.66 107.45
Main plant 821.27 162.04 (371.82) 394.57 216.92
Plant and equipment - Owned 5,760.72 4,068.02
Others 1,241.45 554.74 (139.01) 539.45 1,117.73
Furniture and fixtures 127.06 89.77
Temporary erections 20.01 1.94 (6.69) 0.37 14.89
Office equipment 165.39 107.97
Water supply, drainage and sewerage system 28.56 78.05 89.67 161.91 34.37
EDP, WP machines and satcom equipment 281.43 280.13
Hydraulic works, barrages, dams, tunnels and 5,239.16 611.59 (36.71) - 5,814.04
Communication equipment 66.03 47.43
power channel
Others 235.52 170.01
MGR track and signalling system 45.85 243.67 (192.32) 26.13 71.07
Total 7,440.07 5,470.26
Railway siding 633.47 194.30 (140.51) 313.25 374.01
Others include temporary erections, railway sidings, earth dam reservoirs, construction equipment and electrical Earth dam reservoir 145.95 207.36 (11.78) 261.02 80.51
installations etc.
Plant and equipment - owned 46,828.50 12,498.15 (193.99) 23,747.92 35,384.74
r) Property, plant and equipment subject to operating lease Furniture and fixtures 3.18 9.65 7.37 15.34 4.86
The Power Purchase Agreements (PPA) signed in respect of one of the thermal power stations was operative initially for Vehicles - - - - -
a period of five years with the beneficiaries which are extended, renewed or replaced as the parties mutually agree. The
Office equipment 26.30 10.47 0.13 7.47 29.43
Company has continued to classify this arrangement with its customers as lease based on the practical expedient provided
in Ind AS 116. The net carrying value of such leased assets included above are as under: EDP/WP machines and satcom equipment 6.55 2.00 (3.99) 3.51 1.05
````` Crore Construction equipment 1.67 9.14 (4.49) 4.79 1.53
Particulars As at As at Electrical installations 231.78 118.15 (51.11) 174.47 124.35
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Communication equipment 9.37 11.63 (4.54) 12.91 3.55
Land- Free hold 51.61 51.61
Hospital equipment 0.30 0.39 0.46 0.75 0.40
Roads, bridges, culverts and helipads 6.25 7.81
Laboratory and workshop equipment 0.55 0.68 (0.01) 0.27 0.95
Main plant building-Freehold 5.91 7.68
Development of coal mines 1,752.34 358.43 (167.49) 823.71 1,119.57
Other building-Freehold 14.69 19.85
58,035.79 15,250.58 (1,762.37) 26,835.98 44,688.02
Water supply, drainage and sewerage system 3.70 4.58
Expenditure pending allocation
Plant and equipment - Owned 160.92 187.30
Survey, investigation, consultancy and 77.19 (7.25) (6.02) - 63.92
Railway siding 0.57 0.66 supervision charges
Electrical installation 2.61 2.86 Difference in exchange on foreign currency loans 745.72 3.30 (404.62) - 344.40
Others 1.96 2.68 Pre-commissioning expenses (net) 287.16 648.21 (934.05) - 1.32
Total 248.22 285.03 Expenditure during construction period (net)* 533.75 2,644.65 (44.23) - 3,134.17
Other expenditure directly attributable to project 528.84 (28.31) (87.83) - 412.70
construction
328 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 329
````` Crore ` Crore
Particulars As at Additions Deductions/ Capitalized As at Particulars As at Additions Deductions/ Capitalized As at
1 April adjustments 31 March 1 April adjustments 31 March
2023 2024 2022 2023
Less: Allocated to related works - 2,747.94 - - 2,747.94 Expenditure pending allocation
2,172.66 512.66 (1,476.75) - 1,208.57 Survey, investigation, consultancy and 116.24 (33.00) (6.05) - 77.19
supervision charges
Sub-total 60,208.45 15,763.24 (3,239.12) 26,835.98 45,896.59
Difference in exchange on foreign currency loans 715.09 141.25 (110.62) - 745.72
Less: Provision for unserviceable works 509.65 117.32 (0.05) - 626.92
Pre-commissioning expenses (net) 126.71 492.17 (331.72) - 287.16
Construction stores (net of provisions) 2,045.08 1,205.26 (1,366.20) - 1,884.14
Expenditure during construction period (net)* 569.48 3,494.69 (312.57) - 3,751.60
Total 61,743.88 16,851.18 (4,605.27) 26,835.98 47,153.81
Other expenditure directly attributable to 926.54 12.30 (410.00) - 528.84
As at 31 March 2023 ` Crore project construction
Particulars As at Additions Deductions/ Capitalized As at Less: Allocated to related works - 3,217.85 - - 3,217.85
1 April adjustments 31 March
2,454.06 889.56 (1,170.96) - 2,172.66
2022 2023
Sub-total 71,647.58 16,901.23 (5,441.93) 22,898.43 60,208.45
Development of land 288.66 32.16 (73.52) 6.31 240.99
Less: Provision for unserviceable works 501.54 15.41 (7.30) - 509.65
Roads, bridges, culverts and helipads 350.33 127.74 82.58 226.17 334.48
Construction stores (net of provisions) 2,373.07 1,019.15 (1,347.14) - 2,045.08
Piling and foundation 404.97 19.09 - - 424.06
Total 73,519.11 17,904.97 (6,781.77) 22,898.43 61,743.88
Buildings
Freehold * Brought from expenditure during construction period (net) - Note 47
Main plant 866.44 243.93 122.99 412.09 821.27 a) Construction stores includes material lying with contractors for construction works and are net of provision for
shortages pending investigation amounting to ````` 30.40 crore (31 March 2023: ` 28.54 crore).
Others 1,505.27 639.44 (127.37) 775.89 1,241.45
b) Pre-commissioning expenses for the year amount to ````` 876.05 crore (31 March 2023: ` 667.45 crore) and after
Temporary erections 23.30 5.05 (4.47) 3.87 20.01
adjustment of pre-commissioning sales of ````` 227.84 crore (31 March 2023: ` 175.28 crore) resulted in net pre-
Water supply, drainage and sewerage system 102.94 36.16 (10.37) 100.17 28.56
commissioning expenditure of ````` 648.21 crore (31 March 2023: ` 492.17 crore).
Hydraulic works, barrages, dams, tunnels and 4,740.78 501.60 (2.24) 0.98 5,239.16
c) Additions to the development of coal mines include expenditure during construction period (net) of ````` 1349.06
power channel crore (31 March 2023: ` 651.07 crore) - [Ref. Note 48] and after netting off the receipts from coal extracted during
MGR track and signalling system 69.58 450.19 (472.02) 1.90 45.85 the development phase amounting to ````` 990.63 crore (31 March 2023: ` 282.67 crore).
Railway siding 1,936.13 480.04 (1,458.89) 323.81 633.47 d) Details of exchange differences and borrowing costs capitalised are disclosed in Note 2 (p).
Earth dam reservoir 481.04 193.64 39.97 568.70 145.95 e) Amount capitalised under development of coal mines is included in assets capitalised under ‘Mining properties’ and
‘Site restoration cost’ under Property, plant and equipment.
Plant and equipment - owned 56,469.10 12,798.47 (2,267.29) 20,171.78 46,828.50
Furniture and fixtures 8.46 14.93 3.54 23.75 3.18 4. Investment property
Vehicles 0.06 0.17 - 0.23 - As at 31 March 2024 ````` Crore
Office equipment 31.16 8.14 (0.65) 12.35 26.30 Particulars Gross carrying amount Depreciation and amortization Net carrying
amount
EDP/WP machines and satcom equipment 3.30 4.62 (0.21) 1.16 6.55
As at Additions Deductions/ As at As at For Deductions/ Upto As at
Construction equipment 0.08 3.09 (1.44) 0.06 1.67 1 April adjustments 31 March 1 April the year adjustments 31 March 31 March
Electrical installations 488.99 71.34 (146.26) 182.29 231.78 2023 2024 2023 2024 2024
Land
Communication equipment 36.13 12.35 (33.66) 5.45 9.37
Freehold 465.18 367.78 - 832.96 - - - - 832.96
Hospital equipment 0.20 0.79 - 0.69 0.30
Right of use - 40.64 - 40.64 - 0.86 12.84 13.70 26.94
Laboratory and workshop equipment 1.98 0.33 (0.08) 1.68 0.55
Total 465.18 408.42 - 873.60 - 0.86 12.84 13.70 859.90
Development of coal mines 1,384.62 368.40 78.42 79.10 1,752.34
69,193.52 16,011.67 (4,270.97) 22,898.43 58,035.79
330 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 331
As at 31 March 2023 ` Crore c) Right to use - Others represents cost of acquisition of the right for drawl of water at three stations of the Company.
Particulars Gross carrying amount Depreciation and amortization Net carrying d) Deductions/adjustments from gross block and amortization for the year includes:
amount
````` Crore
As at Additions Deductions/ As at As at For Deductions/ Upto As at
Particulars Gross block Amortization
1 April adjustments 31 March 1 April the year adjustments 31 March 31 March
2022 2023 2022 2023 2023 For the year ended For the year ended
Freehold land - 465.18 - 465.18 - - - - 465.18
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March
a) Investment property has been valued as per material accounting policy no. C.6 (Note 1) 2024 2023 2024 2023
b) Freehold land includes freehold land pertaining to one of the RE stations admeasuring 1202.55 acres of value ` 465.18 Retirements and other adjustments (8.79) (1.15) (8.79) (1.15)
crore which is leased pursuant to a Business Transfer Agreement (BTA) entered into between the Company and NTPC
Total (8.79) (1.15) (8.79) (1.15)
Green Energy Ltd. (NGEL), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, in the previous year. Freehold land also includes
2,773.41 acres of value ` 367.78 crore and Right of use land of 35.85 acres amounting to ` 40.64 crore pertaining land
e) Gross carrying amount of the fully amortised intangible assets that are still in use :
leased to NTPC Renewable Energy Limited (NREL), a subsidiary of NGEL for establishing Solar Power Plant.
````` Crore
c) The rental income arising out of leasing out of the property amounting to ````` 5.93 crore (31 March 2023: ` 0.19 crore) has
Particulars As at As at
been included in Note-41 - Other income. Disclosure on future rent receivable is included in Note 72. The direct operating
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
expenses arising from the investment property are insignificant.
Software 104.77 91.16
d) The company does not have any contractual obligation to purchase, construct or develop investment property or for
repairs, maintenance or enhancements. Total 104.77 91.16
e) Investment property pledged as security is ` Nil in all the reported periods.
f) Refer Note 75 (C) (a) for disclosure of contractual commitments for the acquisition of intangible assets.
f) The fair value of the investment property as at the balance sheet date is ` 852.86 crore w.r.t. freehold land which is
based on the valuation by registered valuers as defined under Rule 2 of Companies (Registered valuers and valuation) 6. Non-current assets - Intangible assets under development
Rules,2017. As at 31 March 2024 ````` Crore
Particulars As at Additions Deductions/ Capitalized As at
5. Non-current assets - Intangible assets
1 April adjustments 31 March
As at 31 March 2024 ````` Crore
2023 2024
Particulars Gross block Amortization Net block
Exploration and evaluation assets - coal mines 86.37 - (41.58) - 44.79
As at Additions Deductions/ As at As at For Deductions/ Upto As at
1 April adjustments 31 March 1 April the year adjustments 31 March 31 March Exploratory wells-in-progress 7.64 - - - 7.64
2023 2024 2023 2024 2024
Software 3.34 0.48 - 0.63 3.19
Software 126.38 8.81 (8.79) 126.40 113.83 9.22 (8.79) 114.26 12.14
97.35 0.48 (41.58) 0.63 55.62
Right to use- Land 174.02 0.54 - 174.56 43.16 7.50 - 50.66 123.90
Less: Provision for unserviceable works 52.43 - - - 52.43
- Others 427.87 - - 427.87 117.11 19.11 - 136.22 291.65
Total 728.27 9.35 (8.79) 728.83 274.10 35.83 (8.79) 301.14 427.69 Total 44.92 0.48 (41.58) 0.63 3.19
As at 31 March 2023 ` Crore As at 31 March 2023 ` Crore
Particulars Gross block Amortization Net block Particulars As at Additions Deductions/ Capitalized As at
As at Additions Deductions/ As at As at For Deductions/ Upto As at 1 April adjustments 31 March
1 April adjustments 31 March 1 April the year adjustments 31 March 31 March 2022 2023
2023 2024 2023 2024 2024
Exploration and evaluation assets - coal mines 142.05 8.52 (64.20) - 86.37
Software 119.70 7.83 (1.15) 126.38 99.70 15.28 (1.15) 113.83 12.55
Exploratory wells-in-progress 7.64 - - - 7.64
Right to use- Land 172.30 1.72 - 174.02 35.70 7.46 - 43.16 130.86
Software 1.21 2.15 - 0.02 3.34
- Others 427.87 - - 427.87 98.00 19.11 - 117.11 310.76
Total 719.87 9.55 (1.15) 728.27 233.40 41.85 (1.15) 274.10 454.17 150.90 10.67 (64.20) 0.02 97.35
Less: Provision for unserviceable works 52.43 - - - 52.43
a) The right to use of land and others are amortized over the period of legal right to use or life of the related plant,
whichever is less. Total 98.47 10.67 (64.20) 0.02 44.92
b) Addition to intangible assets through internal development is Nil in all the reported periods. a) Refer Note 65 w.r.t. exploration and evaluation of assets-coal mines.
332 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 333
7. Non-current financial assets -Equity investments in subsidiary and joint venture companies ````` Crore
````` Crore
Particulars Number of Face value As at As at
Particulars Number of Face value As at As at shares share in ````` 31 March 31 March
shares share in ````` 31 March 31 March Current year/ Current year/ 2024 2023
Current year/ Current year/ 2024 2023 (previous year) (previous year)
(previous year) (previous year) Transformers and Electricals Kerala Ltd. 1,91,63,438 10 31.34 31.34
(1,91,63,438) (10)
Equity instruments - Unquoted
(fully paid up - unless otherwise stated, at cost) Less: Provision for impairment 25.87 -
Subsidiary companies 5.47 31.34
NTPC Electric Supply Company Ltd. 80,910 10 0.08 0.08 National High Power Test Laboratory Private Ltd. 4,88,00,000 10 48.80 30.40
(80,910) (10) (3,04,00,000) (10)
NTPC Vidyut Vyapar Nigam Ltd. 3,00,00,000 10 Less: Provision for impairment 36.48 30.40
(3,00,00,000) (10) 30.00 30.00
12.32 -
Bhartiya Rail Bijlee Company Ltd. 1,77,41,21,538 10 1,774.12 1,774.12
Energy Efficiency Services Ltd. 84,66,10,000 10 846.61 463.61
(1,77,41,21,538) (10)
(46,36,10,000) (10)
Patratu Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Ltd. 2,16,45,54,000 10 2,164.55 1,637.62
Less: Provision for impairment 149.10 -
(1,63,76,24,000) (10)
697.51 463.61
NTPC Mining Ltd. 15,41,00,000 10 154.10 0.05
CIL NTPC Urja Private Ltd. 76,900 10 0.08 0.08
(50,000) (10)
(76,900) (10)
NTPC EDMC Waste Solutions Private Ltd. 1,48,000 10 0.15 0.15
Anushakti Vidhyut Nigam Ltd. 49,000 10 0.05 0.05
(1,48,000) (10)
(49,000) (10)
Ratnagiri Gas & Power Private Ltd. 2,83,00,76,305 10 834.55 834.55
Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Ltd. 2,64,29,85,000 10 2,642.99 2,295.95
(2,83,00,76,305) (10)
(2,29,59,55,000) (10)
Less: Provision for impairment - 834.55
Jhabua Power Limited 32,50,00,000 10 325.00 325.00
834.55 -
(32,50,00,000) (10)
THDC India Limited 2,73,09,412 1,000 7,500.00 7,500.00
Trincomalee Power Company Ltd.(* Srilankan rupees) 34,86,061 100* 15.64 15.20
(2,73,09,412) (1,000)
(32,86,061) (100)*
North Eastern Electric Power Corporation Limited 3,60,98,10,400 10 4,000.00 4,000.00
Less: Provision for impairment 14.28 14.28
(3,60,98,10,400) (10)
1.36 0.92
NTPC Green Energy Limited 5,71,96,11,035 10 5,719.61 4,719.61
Bangladesh-India Friendship Power Company Private Ltd. 16,00,00,000 100* 1,324.02 1,162.02
(4,71,96,11,035) (10)
(**Bangladeshi Taka) (13,92,50,000) (100)*
22,177.16 19,661.63
10,228.79 9,427.04
Joint venture companies
Total 32,405.95 29,088.67
Utility Powertech Ltd. (includes 10,00,000 bonus shares) 20,00,000 10 1.00 1.00
Aggregate amount of unquoted investments (net of provision for impairment) 32,405.95 29,088.67
(20,00,000) (10)
Aggregate amount of impairment in the value of investments 275.73 929.23
NTPC-GE Power Services Private Ltd. 30,00,000 10 3.00 3.00
(30,00,000) (10) a) Investments have been valued as per material accounting policy no. C.22.1 (Note 1).
NTPC-SAIL Power Company Ltd. 49,02,50,050 10 490.25 490.25 b) The Company has an investment of ````` 834.55 crore (31 March 2023: ` 834.55 crore) in Ratnagiri Gas and Power
(49,02,50,050) (10)
Private Ltd. (RGPPL), a Subsidiary of the Company. The entire investment was considered impaired and provided for
NTPC Tamil Nadu Energy Company Ltd. 1,46,63,96,112 10 1,466.40 1,436.40 in the earlier years considering the financial position of the Subsidiary. During the year, fair valuation of investment
(1,43,63,96,112) (10) in the Subsidiary was carried out and considering the same, the provision made in the earlier years has been written
Aravali Power Company Private Ltd. 1,43,30,08,200 10 back and disclosed as an Exceptional item in the Statement of Profit and Loss. Also refer Note 51.
(1,43,30,08,200) (10) 1,433.01 1,433.01
c) The Resolution Plan submitted by the company and approved by National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), Kolkata
NTPC BHEL Power Projects Private Ltd. 5,00,00,000 10 50.00 50.00
bench in respect of Jhabua Power Limited (JPL) having installed and commercial capacity of 600 MW thermal power
(5,00,00,000) (10)
station, was implemented on 5 September 2022 for a total consideration of ` 925 crore, out of which ` 325 crore
Less: Provision for impairment 50.00 50.00
was contributed as equity (face value of ` 10 each) and ` 600 crore was paid for the allotment of 5,99,99,994
- - numbers of 8.5% Non-Convertible Debentures (NCDs) of face value of ` 100 each. Pursuant to above, NTPC has
Meja Urja Nigam Private Ltd. 1,82,63,34,800 10 1,826.33 1,784.41 acquired 50% equity in the Company (JPL) in the previous year. Based on the shareholders agreement which provides
(1,78,44,09,800) (10) for joint control over the company, the investment in the company is considered as joint venture and accounted for
accordingly.
d) The Board of NTPC Ltd. in its meeting dated 29 October 2022 has accorded approval to the Supplementary JV
Agreement of Anushakti Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Limited, a Joint Venture of the Company, to align the document in
334 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 335
line with Atomic Energy Act 2016 amendment so that the Joint Venture Company may initiate process for setting up 8. Non-current financial assets - Other investments
of nuclear power projects. Accordingly, Supplementary JV Agreement was signed between NTPC and NPCIL on 1 ````` Crore
May 2023 subject to approval of Department of Atomic Energy (DAE).
Particulars Number of Face value per As at As at
e) Promoters of National High Power Testing Laboratory Ltd. (NHPTL), a joint venture of the Company, in the meeting instrument instrument in ````` 31 March 31 March
held on 15 September 2022, under the chairmanship of Secretary Power, MoP, has accorded approval of revival plan Current year/ Current year/ 2024 2023
of NHPTL. Subsequently, Board of NTPC Limited has accorded approval to the restructuring plan on 11 March 2023. (previous year) (previous year)
During the year, the Company has converted the loan given to NHPTL, into equity amounting to ` 18.40 crore and Equity instruments (fully paid up - unless otherwise stated)
unpaid interest amounting to ` 2.31 crore on the loan has been waived off. The related activities of restructuring
Quoted (designated at fair value through other
plan was under implementation as at 31 March 2024. Based on the un-audited accounts of NHPTL as at 31 March
comprehensive income)
2024, provision for impairment loss on the investment in the joint venture of ````` 36.48 crore (upto 31 March 2023:
PTC India Ltd. 1,20,00,000 10 223.20 102.30
` 30.40 crore) has been made.
(1,20,00,000) (10)
Further, pursuant to agreement entered on 23 April 2024 with the promoters of NHPTL, the share holding of the
223.20 102.30
company in the Joint venture will get reduced to 12.50% and activities related to the same are in progress.
Unquoted (measured at fair value through profit or loss)
f) The Board of Directors of the Company in its meeting held on 28 April 2016 accorded in principle approval for
withdrawal from NTPC BHEL Power Projects Private Ltd. (NBPPL), a joint venture of the Company. A meeting was International Coal Ventures Private Ltd. 14,00,000 10 1.40 1.40
held on 3 October 2022 at MOP to discuss the way forward for NBPPL. In the meeting, it was decided that the (14,00,000) (10)
process of winding up of NBPPL will be taken up by both the promoters after the completion of balance on going
BF-NTPC Energy Systems Ltd. 68,48,681 10 2.38 2.38
work at one of the projects of the Company. Pending withdrawal, provision for impairment loss on the entire (68,48,681) (10)
investment in NBPPL of ````` 50.00 crore (upto 31 March 2023: ` 50.00 crore) has been made based on the un-audited
3.78 3.78
accounts of NBPPL as at 31 March 2024.
Co-operative societies # #
g) The Board of Directors of the Company in its meeting held on 28 April 2016 accorded in principle approval for
withdrawal from Transformers and Electricals Kerala Ltd. (TELK), a joint venture of the Company. GOI has accorded Debt instruments in Joint Venture Companies (fully paid up)
its approval for exit of NTPC from the joint venture. The decision of the Board of Directors of NTPC Limited and Unquoted (measured at amortised cost)
approval of GOI has been conveyed to the Government of Kerala (GoK) (JV Partner) & TELK vide letter dated
Jhabua Power Limited-8.5% Non convertible debentures - 5,24,99,994 100 475.00 525.00
10.02.2017. GoK has in-principally agreed for the exit of the NTPC Ltd. subject to valuation of NTPC’s share based on
private placement -Redeemable in forty eight quarterly (5,74,99,994) (100)
up-to-date audited results of TELK. The Company is following up with TELK for obtaining the updated audited results
equal installments (Refer Note 14 for current portion of
which are yet to be finalized. Pending the same, provision for impairment loss on the investment in TELK amounting the instrument and Note 7(c) for details of transaction)
to ````` 25.87 crore (upto 31 March 2023: ` Nil) has been made based on the un-audited accounts of TELK as at 31
Total 701.98 631.08
March 2024.
Aggregate amount of quoted investments at cost 12.00 12.00
h) In respect of Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Ltd.,(HURL) a joint venture of the Company, Department of Fertiliser
(DoF) has communicated to explore possibility of disinvestment in HURL vide letter dated 12 October 2022. Aggregate market value of the quoted investments 223.20 102.30
Consequently, approvals of Board and respective ministries have been obtained by all the three lead promoters Aggregate amount of unquoted investments at cost 478.78 528.78
(IOCL, NTPC & CIL) for disinvestment. HURL has sought clarification from DoF with respect to disinvestment of 10.99
#Equity shares of ````` 30,200/- (31 March 2023: ` 30,200/-) held in various employee co-operative societies.
% shareholding of fertilizer companies (FCIL / HFCL), who had provided land on lease to HURL, and the same is
awaited.
a) Investments have been valued as per material accounting policy no. C.22.1 (Note 1).
i) NTPC EDMC Waste Solutions Private Limited (NEWS) was incorporated on 1 June 2020 to develop and operate
b) The Board of Directors of NTPC Ltd in its meeting held on 28 April 2016 accorded in principle approval for withdrawal
integrated waste management and energy generation facility using municipal solid waste. However, due to non
from PTC India Ltd. (PTC). As the Company was formed by a directive from the GOI, approval of the GOI was required
availability of suitable land and PPA, the project was dropped. NTPC vide letter dated 4 May 2022 has requested the
for exit by NTPC. Ministry of Power has accorded permission for NTPC to exit from PTC on 22 February 2022. Further
consent of Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD)/East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) for transfer of MCD’s
in line with the MOP directive that all the Promoter CPSEs along with DVC may exit together in one go from PTC,
equity stake (26%) in NEWS to NTPC or its affiliate Company. MCD vide their letter dated 24 January 2024 has
NTPC Board in its 529th meeting held on 19 May 2023 has accorded approval for exit of NTPC along with other
communicated their in principle approval for the same. Modalities for transfer are being worked out.
CPSEs from PTC. NTPC is in discussion with other CPSEs & Merchant Banker to finalize the modalities of exit from
j) The Company has an investment of ````` 846.61 crore (31 March 2023: ` 463.61 crore) in Energy Efficiency Services PTC.
Ltd., a joint venture of the Company. During the year, impairment testing of the investment was carried out based
c) The Board of Directors of NTPC Ltd in its meeting held on 27 January 2012 accorded in principle approval for withdrawal
on which a provision for impairment amounting to ` 149.10 crore has been made. Also refer Note 62.
from International Coal Ventures Private Ltd. (ICVPL). NTPC Board has accorded fresh approval for exiting from
k) The Company has an investment of ````` 15.64 crore ( 31 March 2023: ` 15.20 crore) in Trincomalee Power Company
ICVPL on 20 May 2022. Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM) of GoI vide OM dated 1
Ltd, a joint venture of the Company. A provision for impairment on the investments amounting to ````` 14.28 crore (31
June 2022 has empowered Board of Directors of Public Sector Undertakings to exit from Joint Ventures and Subsidiaries
March 2023 : ` 14.28 crore) has been maintained based on their unaudited financial statements for the year ended
and send proposal to DIPAM through administrative Ministry for approval. Communication sent to Steel Authority
31 March 2024.
of India Ltd & ICVPL regarding DIPAM guidelines for consideration. Pending withdrawal, the Company had lost the
l) Restrictions for the disposal of investments held by the Company and commitments towards certain subsidiary & joint control over the entity and accordingly, has classified the investment in ICVPL as ‘Investment in unquoted
joint venture companies are disclosed in Note 75 (C) (b) and (c). equity instruments.Pending withdrawal, the Company had lost the joint control over the entity and accordingly, has
m) Refer Note 62 w.r.t. impairment of investments made in subsidiary and Joint Venture Companies. classified the investment in ICVPL as ‘Investment in unquoted equity instruments’.
336 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 337
d) The Board of Directors of NTPC Limited in its meeting held on 19 June 2014 accorded in principle approval for ````` Crore
withdrawal from BF-NTPC Energy Systems Ltd. (BFNESL), a joint venture of the Company. As BFNESL was formed by
Particulars As at As at
a directive from the GOI, approval of the GOI was sought for exit by the Company. Ministry of Power, GoI conveyed
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
its approval for winding up of BF-NTPC on 8 January 2018. Consequently, liquidator was appointed in the extra-
ordinary general meeting of BFNESL held on 9 October 2018. Company has only Land Asset. However, due to high a) Due from directors and officers of the Company
circle rate of the area, there is huge capital Gain tax implication and thus, unable to auction the land. Alternatives Directors 0.08 -
are being discussed by Liquidator with Promoters. Pursuant to winding up proceedings, the Company had lost the
Officers - 0.20
joint control over the entity and accordingly, has classified the investment in BFNESL as ‘Investment in unquoted
equity instruments. The difference between the cost of investment and the fair value has been provided for in the b) Loans to related parties include:
earlier years.
Key management personnel 0.08 0.20
e) The number of Debentures of Jhabua PowerLimited mentioned above includes current portion of Debntures to be
National High Power Test Laboratory Private Ltd.
redeemed.
(Joint venture company) (net of allowance for bad
f) The Company is of the view that provisions of Ind AS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’ and Ind AS 111 ‘Joint Arrangements’ and doubtful loan) (Refer Note 7 for conversion of loan into equity) - 11.63
are not applicable to the investments made in PTC India Ltd., International Coal Ventures Private Ltd. and BF-NTPC
Ratnagiri Gas & Power Private Ltd. (Subsidiary company) 259.32 712.43
Energy systems Ltd., and the same has been accounted for as per the provisions of Ind AS 109 ‘Financial Instruments’.
Also Refer Note 59 (g) for investments in PTC India Ltd. NTPC Education and Research Society - 0.60
g) No strategic investments in equity instruments measured at FVTOCI were disposed during the financial year 2023- c) Loan to Ratnagiri Gas & Power Company Private Ltd.(RGPPL) is secured by first ranking pari passu charge/ mortgage
24, and there were no transfers of any cumulative gain or loss within equity relating to these investments. on the assets (moveable and immoveable, tangible and intangible and current assets) of the Subsidiary, both
present and future. During the year, RGPPL has pre-paid the loan amounting to ` 400.00 crore and the same has
h) Movement in quoted investments
been adjusted from the non-current dues.
````` Crore
d) Loans - Others represent loan of ````` 12.90 crore (31 March 2023: ` 17.20 crore) given to Andhra Pradesh Industrial
Opening balance 102.30 98.70
Infrastructure Corporation Ltd. (APIIC) which is covered by a guarantee given by the Government of Andhra Pradesh
Add / less: Mark to Market gain / loss through FVTOCI 120.90 3.60 vide GO dated 3 April 2003.
Closing balance 223.20 102.30 e) Loans to the employees are secured against the mortgage of the house properties and hypothecation of vehicles
for which such loans have been given in line with the policies of the Company.
9. Non-current financial assets - Loans
````` Crore 10. Non-current financial assets - Trade receivables
````` Crore
Particulars As at As at
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 Particulars As at As at
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Loans (Considered good, unless otherwise stated)
Trade receivables
Related parties
Unsecured, considered good 1,168.10 2,399.78
Secured 259.32 712.43
Unsecured 0.08 12.43 a) Pursuant to Electricity (Late Payment Surcharge and Related Matters) Rules, 2022 notified on 3 June 2022 and the
application made by some of the beneficiaries for redetermination of their payment of dues under these Rules, the
Considered doubtful - 3.09
outstanding dues of such beneficiaries including late payment surcharge (LPSC) have been rescheduled upto a
Less: Allowance for bad and doubtful loans - 3.09 maximum period of 48 months in the manner prescribed in the said Rules and no LPSC are charged on the outstanding
dues. The dues of such beneficiaries have been presented at their fair value under Non- current Trade Receivables
259.40 724.86
considering the requirements of applicable Indian Accounting Standards. Consequently, the fair value difference
Employees (including accrued interest) amounting to ````` 37.74 crore (31 March 2023: ` 386.84 crore) has been charged to Statement of Profit and Loss (Refer
Note 46). Out of the above, an amount of ````` 155.96 crore (31 March 2023: ` 149.88 crore) has been accounted as
Secured 365.21 316.80
interest from non current trade receivables (Refer Note 41).
Unsecured 163.15 174.61
b) No amount is receivable from related party.
Others
Unsecured 12.90 17.20
Total 800.66 1,233.47
338 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 339
11. Non-current assets - Other financial assets 12. Other non-current assets
````` Crore ````` Crore
Particulars As at As at Particulars As at As at
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Share application money pending allotment in Capital advances
(Considered good unless otherwise stated)
Subsidiary companies
Secured 1.45 1.88
Patratu Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Ltd. - 100.00
Unsecured
- 100.00
Covered by bank guarantees 2,826.48 2,204.51
Joint venture companies
Others 3,261.18 3,820.30
Meja Urja Nigam Private Ltd. - 7.49
Considered doubtful 53.86 67.70
NTPC-Tamil Nadu Energy Company Ltd. - 30.00
Less: Allowance for bad and doubtful advances 53.86 67.70
Trincomalee Power Company Ltd. - 0.44
6,089.11 6,026.69
- 37.93
Advances other than capital advances
Claims recoverable 485.07 517.28
(Considered good unless otherwise stated)
Finance lease receivables (Refer Note 72) - 201.56
Security deposits (unsecured) 303.05 306.87
Mine closure deposit 142.91 66.16
Advances to contractors and suppliers
Total 627.98 922.93
Unsecured 1,666.51 1,810.82
a) Claims recoverable includes amount outstanding as recoverable from GOI of ````` 483.37 crore (31 March 2023:
Considered doubtful 112.57 112.57
` 517.28 crore)in respect of one of the hydro power projects, the construction of which has been discontinued on
the advice of the Ministry of Power (MOP), GOI in the year 2010. The aforesaid amount includes ````` 269.93 crore (31 Less: Allowance for bad and doubtful advances 112.57 112.57
March 2023: ` 302.16 crore) in respect of arbitration awards challenged by the Company before Hon’ble High Court 1,666.51 1,810.82
of Delhi for which corresponding liability exists under Current liabilities - Provisions - Provision for arbitration awards
Prepaid Expenses 28.81 25.51
(Note 36). In the event the Hon’ble High Court grants relief to the Company, the amount would be adjusted against
the amount recoverable from GOI. Management expects that the total cost incurred, anticipated expenditure on Advance tax and tax deducted at source 16,446.05 14,730.96
the safety and stabilisation measures, other recurring site expenses and interest costs as well as claims of contractors/
Less: Provision for tax 14,251.99 12,254.94
vendors for various packages for this project will be compensated in full by the GOI.
2,194.06 2,476.02
b) The Company had ascertained that the Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) entered into for Stage-I of a power station
with the beneficiary falls under the definition of finance lease. Accordingly, the written down value of the specified Deferred foreign currency fluctuation asset 1,486.57 1,565.41
assets was derecognized from PPE and accounted as Finance Lease Receivable (FLR) on transition to Ind AS. The
Deferred payroll expenditure 107.77 103.02
Company has continued to classify this arrangement with its customer as lease based on the practical expedient
Adjustable from Escrow Account towards mine closure expenses 62.82 39.30
provided in Ind AS 116. Accordingly, recovery of capacity charges towards depreciation, interest on loan capital &
return on equity (pre-tax) components from the beneficiary are continued to be adjusted against FLR. The interest Total 11,938.70 12,353.64
component of the FLR and amount received on account of revision of tariff of previous periods in respect of the
a) In line with material accounting policy no. C.12 (Note 1), deferred foreign currency fluctuation asset has been
above three elements are continued to be recognised as ‘Interest income on Assets under finance lease’ under
accounted and ````` 89.79 crore (31 March 2023: ` 830.98 crore) being the exchange fluctuations on account of foreign
‘Revenue from operations’ (Note 40). The PPA is expiring in the next financial year and accordingly the balance lease
currency loans have been adjusted in ‘Energy sales’ under ‘Revenue from operations’. Further, an amount of ````` 10.95
recoverable has been included under ‘Current assets - Other financial assets’.
crore (31 March 2023: ` 915.67 crore) has been recognised as deferred foreign currency fluctuation asset
c) As per the guidelines from Ministry of Coal, Government of India for preparation of Mine Closure Plan, Escrow corresponding to exchange differences capitalised during the year. (Note 40).
Accounts have been opened for each captive mine and the balances held in these escrow accounts are presented as
b) Capital advances include amounts given as advance against works to the following private companies (related parties)
‘Mine closure deposit’. Up to 80% of the total deposited amount including interest accrued in the escrow account
in which one or more directors of the Company are directors:
shall be released after every five years in line with the periodic examination of the closure plan as per the Guidelines.
Interest earned on the escrow account is added to mine closure deposit account. NTPC BHEL Power Projects Private Ltd. 281.96 274.25
c) Capital advances include ````` 224.29 crore (31 March 2023: ` 224.29 crore), paid to a contractor pending settlement of
certain claims which are under litigation. The amount will be adjusted with the cost of related work or recovered
from the party, depending upon the outcome of the legal proceedings.
340 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 341
d) Advances to contractors and suppliers include payments to Railways amounting to ````` 1,580.42 crore (31 March d) Refer Note 53 (b) for information on inventories pledged as security by the Company.
2023: ` 1,708.03 crore) under customer funding model as per policy on ‘Participative model for rail-connectivity
e) Paragraph 32 of Ind AS 2 ‘Inventories’ provides that materials and other supplies held for use in the production of
and capacity augmentation projects’ issued by the Ministry of Railways, GOI. As per this policy, an agreement has
inventories are not written down below cost if the finished products in which they will be incorporated are expected
been signed between the Company and the Ministry of Railways, GOI on 6 June 2016. As per the agreement, railway
to be sold at or above cost. The Company is operating in the regulatory environment and as per CERC Tariff Regulations,
projects agreed between the Company and Railways will be constructed, maintained and operated by Railways and
cost of fuel and other inventory items are recovered as per extant tariff regulations. Accordingly, the realizable value
ownership of the line and its operations and maintenance will always remain with them. Railways will pay upto 7%
of the inventories is not lower than the cost.
of the amount invested through freight rebate on freight volumes every year till the funds provided by the Company
are fully recovered along-with interest (equal to the prevailing rate of dividend payable by Railways at the time of
14. Current financial assets - Investments
signing of respective agreements), subject to the rebate not exceeding the freight amount in the accounting year,
````` Crore
after commercial operation date (COD) of the railway projects. The advance is adjusted at projects which have
achieved COD based on confirmation from Railways towards freight rebate in consonance with the agreement Particulars As at As at
terms and the interest portion is recognised in Note-41-’Other income’. 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
e) Secured capital advances are secured against the hypothecation of the construction equipment/material supplied Current maturity of non current investments
by the contractors/suppliers.
Investment in debt instruments in Joint venture companies
f) Loans given to employees are measured at amortized cost. The deferred payroll expenditure represents the benefits (Unquoted - measured at amortised cost)
on account of interest rate on loans being lower than the market rate of interest. The same is amortized on a
Jhabua Power Limited-8.5% Non convertible debentures - 50.00 50.00
straight-line basis over the remaining period of the loan.
private placement (Refer Note 8)
13. Current assets - Inventories Total 50.00 50.00
````` Crore
a) Investments have been valued as per material accounting policy no. C.22 (Note 1)
Particulars As at As at
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 15. Current financial assets - Trade receivables
Coal 7,560.67 5,064.63 ````` Crore
Fuel oil 879.95 892.97 Particulars As at As at
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Naphtha 83.66 85.05
Trade receivables
Stores and spares 7,148.84 6,231.13
Unsecured, considered good 27,347.52 26,028.64
Chemicals and consumables 287.72 236.60
Credit impaired 0.20 0.20
Loose tools 16.21 14.38
27,347.72 26,028.84
Others 1,628.71 1,357.33
Less: Allowance for credit impaired trade receivables 0.20 0.20
17,605.76 13,882.09
Total 27,347.52 26,028.64
Less:Provision for shortages 15.06 15.99
a) Refer Note 54 for restatement of Trade receivables for the previous periods pursuant to opinion of Expert Advisory
Provision for obsolete/unserviceable items/
committee of Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
diminution in value of surplus inventory 220.87 186.35
b) Amounts receivable from related parties are disclosed in Note 59 (c).
Total 17,369.83 13,679.75
c) Trade receivables include revenue for the month of March amounting to ````` 13,326.46 crore (31 March 2023:
Inventories include material-in-transit
` 11,176.95 crore) net of advance, billed to the beneficiaries after 31 March.
Coal 495.62 426.44
d) The carrying amount of trade receivables include receivables amounting to ````` 1,824.71 crore (31 March 2023:
Stores and spares 14.40 19.40 ` 1,287.19 crore) towards bills of customers discounted through bill discounting facility availed from banks. The
facility is with recourse to the Company i.e. if the customer fails to make payment on due date, the Company will be
Chemicals and consumables 5.31 2.20
required to make the payment. Under this arrangement, the Company has transferred the receivables to the bank in
Loose tools 0.01 0.04 exchange for cash and is prevented from selling or pledging the receivables. Further, the Company has retained
Others 2.08 6.68 substantially all of the risks and rewards, primarily late payment and credit risk, therefore these trade receivables
have not been derecognized from the balance sheet. The amount received from the bank under the facility has
a) Inventory items have been valued as per material accounting policy no. C.8 (Note 1).
been recognized under ‘Current financial liabilities – Borrowings (Secured)’ (refer Note 31(d)). The Company considers
b) Inventories - Others includes steel, cement, ash bricks etc. that the held to collect business model remains appropriate for these receivables and accordingly, continues to
measure them at amortised cost.
c) Refer Note 53 (a) for information on inventories consumed and recognised as expense during the year.
342 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 343
(d) Trade Receivables ageing schedule 16. Current financial assets - Cash and cash equivalents
As at 31 March 2024 ````` Crore
````` Crore
Particulars As at As at
Particulars Unbilled Not Due Outstanding for following periods from due Total
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
date of payment
Less than 6 months - 1-2 2-3 More than Balances with banks in current accounts 197.13 2.18
6 months 1 year years years 3 years
Cheques and drafts on hand - 0.91
(i) Undisputed Trade receivables – 13,609.03 9,740.33 2,933.47 84.57 32.22 19.16 61.52 26,480.30
considered good Others (stamps on hand) 0.03 0.04
(ii) Undisputed Trade Receivables – - - - - - - - - Total 197.16 3.13
which have significant increase
in credit risk
17. Current financial assets - Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents
(iii) Undisputed Trade Receivables – - - - - - - - -
credit impaired ````` Crore
(iv) Disputed Trade Receivables– - 18.88 13.66 94.43 63.07 509.86 167.32 867.22 Particulars As at As at
considered good 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
(v) Disputed Trade Receivables – - - - - - - - -
Deposits with original maturity of more than three months 2,377.23 1,588.60
which have significant
and maturing within one year (including interest accrued)
increase in credit risk
(vi) Disputed Trade Receivables – - - - - - - 0.20 0.20 Earmarked balances with banks # 2,026.11 2,150.00
credit impaired
Total 4,403.34 3,738.60
Sub-total 13,609.03 9,759.21 2,947.13 179.00 95.29 529.02 229.04 27,347.72
#Earmarked balances with banks towards:
Less: Allowance for credit - - - - - - 0.20 0.20
impaired trade receivables Redemption of bonds due for repayment within one year 723.00 1,033.00
Total 13,609.03 9,759.21 2,947.13 179.00 95.29 529.02 228.84 27,347.52
Fly ash utilization reserve fund* 902.81 729.82
As at 31 March 2023 DDUGJY and other Schemes of GOI** 283.42 283.26
` Crore
Unpaid dividend account balance 17.74 19.07
Particulars Unbilled Not Due Outstanding for following periods from due Total
date of payment Amount deposited as per court orders 37.28 37.28
Less than 6 months - 1-2 2-3 More than
Unpaid interest/refund account balance - Bonds 12.12 9.04
6 months 1 year years years 3 years
Payment Security Fund - MNRE Refer Note (a) below 49.18 37.97
(i) Undisputed Trade receivables – 12,447.25 9,776.81 1,059.91 1,219.55 62.65 2.49 54.58 24,623.24
considered good
Unpaid interest on public deposit 0.03 0.03
(ii) Undisputed Trade Receivables – - - - - - - - -
Amount deposited-arbitration cases 0.53 0.53
which have significant increase
in credit risk Total 2,026.11 2,150.00
(iii) Undisputed Trade Receivables – - - - - - - - -
* Refer Note 24 (d) regarding fly ash utilization reserve fund.
credit impaired
** Out of advances for the schemes of GOI. Refer Note 34(b) and 35(a).
(iv) Disputed Trade Receivables– - 25.56 78.49 130.12 677.94 151.36 341.93 1,405.40
considered good a) In line with the guidelines issued by Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE), GOI under National Solar
(v) Disputed Trade Receivables – - - - - - - - - Mission-II, a Payment Security Mechanism (PSM) /Working Capital Fund will be set up/created by the MNRE. Upon
which have significant creation of the said fund, amounts accrued from encashment of bank guarantee, penalties/liquidated damages on
increase in credit risk developers deducted by the Company from the Solar Power Developers (SPDs) as per the guidelines of MNRE shall
(vi) Disputed Trade Receivables – - - - - - - 0.20 0.20 be transferred to this fund. Subsequently, MNRE has asked the Company to maintain the PSM fund. The fund is
credit impaired retained till further directions for payment to MNRE or any other authority as may be directed.
Sub-total 12,447.25 9,802.37 1,138.40 1,349.67 740.59 153.85 396.71 26,028.84
Less: Allowance for credit
impaired trade receivables - - - - - - 0.20 0.20
Total 12,447.25 9,802.37 1,138.40 1,349.67 740.59 153.85 396.51 26,028.64
344 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 345
18. Current financial assets - Loans 19. Current assets - Other financial assets
````` Crore
````` Crore
Particulars As at As at
Particulars As at As at
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Advances
Loans (including interest accrued)
(Considered good unless otherwise stated)
(Considered good unless otherwise stated)
Related parties
Related parties
Unsecured 171.26 3,345.64
Secured 53.10 53.10
Employees
Unsecured 100.00 1.64
Unsecured 10.57 12.79
Considered doubtful - 3.68
Considered doubtful 0.03 0.03
Less: Allowance for bad and doubtful loans - 3.68
Less: Allowance for bad and doubtful advances 0.03 0.03
153.10 54.74
10.57 12.79
Employees
Others
Secured 86.68 77.77
Unsecured 0.34 1.33
Unsecured 171.77 175.64
Claims recoverable
Others Unsecured, considered good 235.75 280.35
Unsecured 4.30 4.30 Considered doubtful 349.54 349.32
Total 415.85 312.45 Less: Allowance for doubtful claims 349.54 349.32
a) Due from Directors and Officers of the Company 235.75 280.35
Contract assets 10,682.16 7,096.08
Directors - 0.16
Finance lease receivables 211.01 83.63
Officers - 0.10
Mine closure deposit 26.09 37.31
b) Loans to related parties include:
Dividend receivable 223.49 350.00
Key management personnel - 0.26
Hedging cost recoverable 10.51 -
Ratnagiri Gas & Power Private Ltd. (Subsidiary company) 153.10 53.10 Others 93.76 66.68
[Refer Note 9 c)]
Total 11,664.94 11,273.81
National High Power Test Laboratory Private Ltd. (Joint venture - 1.38 a) Contract Assets represent Company’s right to consideration in exchange for goods and services that the Company
company) (net of allowance for bad and doubtful loan) (Refer has transferred / provided to customers when that right is conditioned on matters, other than passage of time, like
Note 7 for conversion of loan into equity) receipt of income tax assessment orders, trueing up orders from CERC,etc. and are net of credits to be passed to
customers.
c) Other loans represent interest on loan of ````` 4.30 crore (31 March 2023: interest on loan of ` 4.30 crore) given to
b) Advances to related parties include:
APIIC which is covered by a guarantee given by the Government of Andhra Pradesh vide GO dated 3 April 2003.
Key Managerial Personnel - -
d) Loans to the employees are secured against the mortgage of the house properties and hypothecation of vehicles for
Subsidiary companies 67.96 3,180.76#
which such loans have been given in line with the policies of the Company.
Joint venture companies 59.13 76.77
Post employment benefits Trusts 44.17 88.11
# Includes balance amounts recoverable in terms of BTA for transfer of RE assets after adjustment of subsequent
transactions which have been received / adjusted during the year.
c) Advances to related parties include amounts due from the following private companies in which one or more directors
of the Company are directors:
NTPC-GE Power Services Private Ltd. 4.25 3.30
Aravali Power Company Private Ltd. 14.99 15.64
NTPC BHEL Power Projects Private Ltd. 3.14 1.20
Meja Urja Nigam Private Ltd. 18.60 7.34
d) Other financial assets - Others include amount recoverable from contractors and other parties towards hire charges,
rent/electricity etc.
e) Dividend receivable represents interim dividend declared by the Board of THDC India Ltd. (Subsidiary of the Company)
on 31 March 2024 (31 March 2023 - NEEPCO Ltd.), which has since been received.
346 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 347
20. Current assets - Other current assets c) Loans given to employees are measured at amortized cost. The deferred payroll expenditure represents the benefits
````` Crore on account of interest rate on loans being lower than the market rate of interest. The same is amortized on a
straight-line basis over the remaining period of the loan.
Particulars As at As at
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 d) Advances to contractors and suppliers mainly include payment made to coal companies amounting to ````` 3,420.89
Security deposits crore (31 March 2023: ` 3,143.51 crore) for supply of coal to various stations of the Company.
Unsecured 1,863.76 2,322.88 e) Claims recoverable includes claims against Railways amounting to ````` 1,962.65 crore (31 March 2023: ` 2,023.76
Considered doubtful 500.00 - crore) mainly towards diversion of coal rakes. These are regularly reviewed and reconciled with the Indian Railways
periodically. Claims recoverable also includes claims amounting to ````` 1,725.37 crore (31 March 2023: ` 1,615.66
Less: Allowance for bad and doubtful advances 500.00 -
crore) made against coal companies towards various issues eg. credit notes to be received as per referee results for
1,863.76 2,322.88
grade slippages, supply of stones, claims under settlement through AMRCD, surface transportation charges,etc.
Advances
(Considered good unless otherwise stated)
21. Assets held for sale
Related parties ````` Crore
Unsecured 96.89 0.31
Particulars As at As at
Employees 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Unsecured 5.75 5.90 Land 0.17 4.21
Contractors and suppliers Building 9.60 21.46
Unsecured 4,663.28 4,376.18 Plant and equipment 104.70 92.90
Considered doubtful 3.19 3.93
Other assets 2.72 1.95
Less: Allowance for bad and doubtful advances 3.19 3.93
Total 117.19 120.52
4,663.28 4,376.18
a) The Company has surplus land of 0.83 acres (31 March 2023: 20.87 acres) which is under process of disposal. The
Prepaid expenses 38.34 42.58
Company expects that the fair value (estimated based on market values) less costs to sell is higher than their carrying
Others values and hence no impairment is considered necessary.
Unsecured 0.71 1.29
b) Plant and equipment and Other assets (Office equipment, vehicles,furniture and fixtures,etc.) have been identified
4,804.97 4,426.26 for disposal due to replacement/ obsolescence of assets which happens in the normal course of operations. On
Interest accrued on account of classification of these assets from Property, plant and equipment, the loss recognised in the statement of
profit and loss is not material.
Advance to contractors 63.93 68.45
Claims recoverable c) These assets are expected to be disposed off within the next twelve months.
Unsecured, considered good 4,030.67 3,852.26 d) The Company has not reclassified any of the assets classified as held for sale as Property, plant and equipment
Considered doubtful 125.59 125.84 during the year as well as in the previous year.
Less: Allowance for doubtful claims 125.59 125.84
22. Regulatory deferral account debit balances
4,030.67 3,852.26
````` Crore
Deferred payroll expenditure 22.03 20.07
Particulars As at As at
Adjustable from Escrow Account for mine closure expenses 28.80 28.15 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Others 93.34 8.08 On account of
Total 10,907.50 10,726.15 Exchange differences - 1,034.34
a) Security deposits (unsecured) include ````` 41.98 crore (31 March 2023: ` 54.20 crore) towards sales tax/GST deposited Employee benefits expense 62.48 177.75
with sales/commercial tax authorities, ````` 1,233.32 crore (31 March 2023: ` 1,458.49 crore) deposited with Courts,
Deferred tax 13,278.97 10,676.77
````` 223.20 crore (31 March 2023: ` 218.83 crore) deposited with LIC for making annuity payments to the land oustees.
Further an amount of ````` 500.00 crore (31 March 2023: ` 500.00 crore) has been deposited against bank guarantee Ash transportation cost 68.36 73.11
with one of the party as per the direction of the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India, refer Note 63 (iii) which has been Total 13,409.81 11,961.97
considered as doubtful.
a) Regulatory deferral account balances have been accounted in line with material accounting policy no. C.4 (Note 1).
b) Advances - Related parties include amounts due from the following private companies in which one or more directors Refer Note 39 for Regulatory deferral account credit balances. Refer Note 70 for detailed disclosures.
of the Company are directors:
b) CERC Tariff Regulations, 2019 provide for recovery of deferred tax liability (DTL) as at 31 March 2009 from the
NTPC-GE Power Services Private Ltd. - 0.02 beneficiaries. Accordingly, DTL as at 31 March 2009 is recoverable on materialisation from the beneficiaries.
Regulations, 2014 and Regulations, 2019 provide for grossing-up the rate of return on equity based on effective tax
348 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 349
rate for the financial year based on the actual tax paid during the year on the generation income. Accordingly, Particulars 31 March 2023
deferred tax liability for the period from 1 April 2014 will be reversed in future years when the related DTL forms
No. of shares %age holding
part of current tax. Keeping in view the above, the Company has recognized such deferred tax as regulatory deferral
account debit balances, since the amounts are recoverable in future years. - President of India 4,95,53,46,251 51.10
- Life Insurance Corporation of India 57,41,73,389 5.92
23. Equity share capital (including shares held in various Funds/Schemes)
````` Crore
- ICICI Prudential Mutual Fund 55,60,01,423 5.73
Particulars As at As at
e) Increase in the authorised share capital
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Equity share capital During the previous year 2022-23, the authorised share capital of the Company has increased from ` 10,000 crore
to ` 16,600 crore pursuant to scheme of amalgamation of two subsidiaries of the Company, vide order dated 26
Authorized
August 2022 of Ministry of Corporate Affairs, GOI.
16,60,00,00,000 shares of par value ` 10/- each (16,60,00,00,000 shares of 16,600.00 16,600.00
f) For the period of five years immediately preceding the Balance sheet date:
par value ` 10/- each as at 31 March 2023)
Issued, subscribed and fully paid up (i) Shares bought back
9,69,66,66,134 shares of par value ` 10/- each (9,69,66,66,134 shares of par 9,696.67 9,696.67 The Company has bought back 19,78,91,146 equity shares of the Company for an aggregate amount of ` 2,275.75
value ` 10/- each as at 31 March 2023) crore being 2% of the total paid up equity share capital at ` 115.00 per equity share, during the financial year
2020-21.
a) Reconciliation of the shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the year:
(ii) Shares allotted as fully paid up by way of bonus shares:
````` Crore
The Company had issued 1,64,90,92,880 equity shares of ` 10/- each as fully paid bonus shares in the financial
Particulars Number of shares
year 2018-19 in the ratio of one equity share of ` 10/- each for every five equity shares held.
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
At the beginning of the year 9,69,66,66,134 9,69,66,66,134 g) Details of shareholding of promoters:
Outstanding at the end of the year 9,69,66,66,134 9,69,66,66,134 Shares held by promoters as at 31 March 2024
Sl. No. Promoter name No. of shares %age of total shares %age changes during the year
b) Terms and rights attached to equity shares:
The Company has only one class of equity shares having a par value ` 10/- per share. The holders of the equity 1. President of India 4,95,53,46,251 51.10 Nil
shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to voting rights proportionate Shares held by promoters as at 31 March 2023
to their share holding at the meetings of shareholders.
Sl. No. Promoter name No. of shares %age of total shares %age changes during the year
c) Dividends:
1. President of India 4,95,53,46,251 51.10 Nil
````` Crore
Particulars Paid during the year endedshares
24. Other equity
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
````` Crore
(i) Dividends paid and recognised during the year
Particulars As at As at
Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2023 of ````` 3.00(31 March 2,909.00 2,909.00
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
2022: ` 3.00) per equity share
Capital reserve 50.08 50.08
Interim dividends for the year ended 31 March 2024 of ````` 4.50(31 March 4,363.50 4,121.08
2023: ` 4.25) per equity share Capital redemption reserve 197.89 197.89
````` Crore Bonds/debentures redemption reserve 3,219.38 5,014.61
(ii) Dividends not recognised at the end of the reporting period 31 March 2024 31 March 2023 Fly ash utilization reserve fund 902.81 729.82
In addition to the above dividends, since year end the directors have 3,151.42 2,909.00 General reserve 96,147.17 96,147.17
recommended the payment of a final dividend of ````` 3.25 (31 March 2023:
Retained earnings 39,459.82 26,963.34
` 3.00) per equity share. This proposed dividend is subject to the approval
of shareholders in the ensuing Annual General Meeting. Reserve for equity instruments through OCI 211.20 90.30
Total 1,40,188.35 1,29,193.21
d) Details of shareholders holding more than 5% shares in the Company:
Particulars As at 31 March 2024
No. of shares %age holding
- President of India 4,95,53,46,251 51.10
350 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 351
(a) Capital reserve The principal Gazette Notification dated 14 September 1999 enunciates that every thermal power plant should provide
````` Crore ash free of cost for 10 years for activities of manufacturing ash-based products or for construction of roads, embankments,
dams, dykes or for any other construction activity. Subsequently, vide Gazette Notification dated 3 November 2009,
Particulars For the year For the year
issued by the Ministry of Environment and Forest (MOEF),Government of India (GOI) directed that, the amount collected
ended ended
from sale of fly ash and fly ash based products should be kept in a separate account head and shall be utilized only for
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
the development of infrastructure or facility, promotion & facilitation activities for use of fly ash until 100 percent fly ash
Opening balance and closing balance 50.08 50.08
utilization level is achieved.
Capital reserve represents amount received by the Company during 2001-02 as consideration under settlement for
Vide, Gazette Notification dated 31st December 2021, of Ministry of Environment and Forest and Climate Change
withdrawal from an erstwhile JV project. There is no movement in the capital reserve balance during the year. This
(MOEF&CC), GOI which is applicable from 1st April 2022 had superseded all earlier notifications The said notification
amount will be utilised as per the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
does not mention any requirement of keeping the amount thus collected from sale of fly ash and fly ash based products
(b) Capital redemption reserve in a separate account. However, the Company continues to maintain the fund for the purposes stated above.
````` Crore In line with various CERC orders on reimbursement of ash transportation, the Company spends the amounts collected
Particulars For the year For the year from sale of fly ash and fly ash-based products for offsetting it against the expenditure incurred by respective Station for
ended ended transportation of ash to agencies engaged in construction activities such as road laying, road and flyover embankments,
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 shoreline protection structures in coastal districts and dams.
Opening balance and closing balance 197.89 197.89 The fund balance has been kept in ‘Bank balances other than cash & cash equivalents’ (Note 17). Also refer Note 22 & 70
(ii)(d) for ash transportation cost.
Capital redemption reserve is created when company purchases its own shares out of free reserves or securities premium,
as required by Companies Act, 2013. A sum equal to the nominal value of the shares so purchased is transferred to (e) General reserve
capital redemption reserve. This reserve will be utilised in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013. ````` Crore
Also refer Note 23 (f)(i). Particulars For the year For the year
ended ended
(c) Bonds/Debentures redemption reserve
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
````` Crore
Opening balance 96,147.17 96,147.17
Particulars For the year For the year
ended ended Closing balance 96,147.17 96,147.17
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 General reserve is used from time to time to transfer profits from retained earnings for appropriation purposes. The
Opening balance 5,014.61 5,643.18 same will be utilised as per the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
Less: Transfer to retained earnings 1,795.23 628.57 (f) Retained earnings
Closing balance 3,219.38 5,014.61 ````` Crore
Ministry of Corporate Affairs notified Companies (Share Capital and Debentures) Amendment Rules, 2019 on 16 August Particulars For the year For the year
2019. As per the amendment, Debenture Redemption Reserve (DRR) is not required to be created in case of Companies ended ended
whose securities are listed. Accordingly, the Company has not created any further Bonds/Debenture Redemption Reserve 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
from the financial year 2019-20 onwards. Further, the outstanding balance of Bonds / Debenture Redemption Reserve Opening balance 26,963.34 16,247.42
created up to 31 March 2019 shall be written back as and when the respective bonds / debentures are redeemed.
Add: Profit for the year as per statement of profit and loss 18,079.39 17,196.73
(d) Fly ash utilization reserve fund Transfer from bonds/debentures redemption reserve 1,795.23 628.57
````` Crore
Less:Final dividend paid (2022-23) 2,909.00 2,909.00
Particulars For the year For the year
Interim dividend paid (2023-24) 4,363.50 4,121.08
ended ended
39,565.46 27,042.64
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Items of other comprehensive income recognized directly in retained
Opening balance 729.82 598.41
earnings:
Add: Transferred during the year:
- Net actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit plans (net of tax) (105.64) (79.30)
Revenue from operations 492.16 396.51
Closing balance 39,459.82 26,963.34
Other income 56.30 29.15
Retained Earnings are the profits of the Company earned till date net of appropriations. The same will be utilised for
Less: Utilised during the year:
the purposes as per the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
Capital expenditure 10.16 2.95
Other expenses including tax expense 365.31 291.30
Closing balance 902.81 729.82
352 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 353
(g) Reserve for equity instruments through OCI ````` Crore
````` Crore
Particulars As at As at
Particulars For the year For the year 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
ended ended
8.63% Tax free secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable bonds 105.70 105.70
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
of ` 10,00,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 4 March 2029 (Fifty First
Opening balance 90.30 86.70 Issue B - Private Placement) III
Add: Fair value gains/(losses) on equity instruments for the year 120.90 3.60 8.30% Secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 4,069.70 4,068.96
Closing balance 211.20 90.30 of ` 10,00,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 15 January 2029 (Sixty
Seventh Issue - Private Placement) V
The Company has elected to recognize changes in the fair value of certain investments in equity instruments in other
comprehensive income. These changes are accumulated in reserve for equity instruments through OCI within equity. 8.48% Tax free secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable bonds 256.14 256.10
The Company transfers amounts from this reserve to retained earnings when the relevant equity instruments are - 2013 of ` 1,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 16 December 2028
derecognized. (Fiftieth Issue - Public Issue - Series 2A)VI
8.73% Tax free secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable bonds 93.73 93.71
25. Non-current financial liabilities -Borrowings - 2013 of ` 1,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 16 December 2028
````` Crore (Fiftieth Issue - Public Issue - Series 2B)VI
Particulars As at As at 7.47% Secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 697.00 696.90
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 of ` 10,00,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 16 September 2026 (Sixty
Bonds/debentures Third Issue - Private Placement)IV
Secured 7.58% Secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 836.70 836.61
of ` 10,00,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 23 August 2026 (Sixty
7.37% Tax free secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable bonds 189.01 188.95
Second Issue - Private Placement)IV
- 2015 of ` 1,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 5 October 2035 (Fifty
Sixth Issue - Public Issue - Series 3A)IX 8.05% Secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 1,072.73 1,072.90
of ` 10,00,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 5 May 2026 (Sixtieth Issue
7.62% Tax free secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable bonds 171.77 171.71
- Private Placement)IV
- 2015 of ` 1,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 5 October 2035 (Fifty
Sixth Issue - Public Issue - Series 3B)IX 8.19% Secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 512.02 511.91
of ` 10,00,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 15 December 2025(Fifty
8.61% Tax free secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable bonds 322.11 322.11
of ` 10,00,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 4 March 2034 (Fifty First Seventh Issue - Private Placement)IV
Issue C - Private Placement) III 7.11% Tax free secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable bonds 112.11 112.06
8.66% Tax free secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable bonds 319.93 319.87 - 2015 of ` 1,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 5 October 2025 (Fifty
- 2013 of ` 1,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 16 December 2033 Sixth Issue - Public Issue - Series 1A)IX
(Fiftieth Issue - Public Issue - Series 3A)VI 7.36% Tax free secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable bonds 68.30 68.26
8.91% Tax free secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable bonds 410.39 410.32 - 2015 of ` 1,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 5 October 2025 (Fifty
- 2013 of ` 1,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 16 December 2033 Sixth Issue - Public Issue - Series 1B)IX
(Fiftieth Issue - Public Issue - Series 3B)VI 7.15% Tax free secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable bonds 313.13 313.05
7.37% Secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 4,010.99 4,010.41 - 2015 of ` 10,00,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 21 August 2025
of ` 10,00,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 14 December 2031(Sixty (Fifty Fifth Issue - Private Placement)VII
Sixth Issue - Private Placement)II 9.17% Secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 1,048.11 1,047.99
7.49% Secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 720.75 720.65 of ` 10,00,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 22 September 2024(Fifty
of ` 10,00,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 7 November 2031 (Sixty Third Issue - Private Placement)VII
Fourth Issue - Private Placement)IV
9.34% Secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds - 751.53
7.28% Tax free secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable bonds 133.53 133.48 of ` 10,00,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 24 March 2024 (Fifty
- 2015 of ` 1,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 5 October 2030 (Fifty Second Issue - Private Placement)III
Sixth Issue - Public Issue - Series 2A)IX
8.19% Tax free secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable bonds - 75.47
7.53% Tax free secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable bonds 49.96 49.93 - 2013 of ` 10,00,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 4 March 2024 (Fifty
- 2015 of ` 1,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 5 October 2030 (Fifty First Issue A - Private Placement)III
Sixth Issue - Public Issue - Series 2B)IX
8.41% Tax free secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable bonds - 499.95
7.32% Secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 4,522.59 4,522.31 - 2013 of ` 1,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 16 December 2023
of ` 10,00,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 17 July 2029 (Sixty Ninth (Fiftieth Issue - Public Issue - Series 1A)VI
Issue - Private Placement)IV
354 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 355
````` Crore ````` Crore
Particulars As at As at Particulars As at As at
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
8.66% Tax free secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable bonds - 213.89 9.2573% Secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 42.69 48.01
- 2013 of ` 1,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 16 December 2023 of ` 15,00,000/- each with fifteen equal separately transferable redeemable
(Fiftieth Issue - Public Issue - Series 1B)VI principal parts (STRPP) redeemable at par at the end of 6th year and in annual
instalments thereafter upto the end of 20th year respectively commencing
9.25% Secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 433.66 542.07
from 2 March 2018 and ending on 2 March 2032 (Forty Third Issue - Private
of ` 10,00,000/- each with five equal separately transferable redeemable
Placement)III
principal parts (STRPP) redeemable at par at the end of 11th year and in
annual instalments thereafter upto the end of 15th year respectively 9.6713% Secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 42.81 48.18
commencing from 04 May 2023 and ending on 04 May 2027 (Forty Fourth of ` 15,00,000/- each with fifteen equal separately transferable redeemable
Issue - Private Placement)VI principal parts (STRPP) redeemable at par at the end of 6th year and in annual
instalments thereafter upto the end of 20th year respectively commencing
8.48% Secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds - 50.01
from 23 December 2017 and ending on 23 December 2031 (Forty First Issue
of ` 10,00,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 1 May 2023(Seventeenth
- Private Placement)III
Issue - Private Placement)I
9.558% Secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 42.78 48.11
8.80% Secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds - 217.46
of ` 15,00,000/- each with fifteen equal separately transferable redeemable
of ` 10,00,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 4 April 2023 (Forty Ninth
principal parts (STRPP) redeemable at par at the end of 6th year and in annual
Issue - Private Placement)VI
instalments thereafter upto the end of 20th year respectively commencing
8.49% Secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable fully 4,132.32 8,260.81
from 29 July 2017 and ending on 29 July 2031 (Fortieth Issue - Private
paid-up bonus debentures of ` 12.50 each redeemable at par in three annual
Placement)III
instalments of ` 2.50, ` 5.00 and ` 5.00 at the end of 8th year, 9th year and
9.3896% Secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 59.82 67.28
10th year on 25 March 2023, 25 March 2024 and 25 March 2025 respectively
of ` 15,00,000/- each with fifteen equal separately transferable redeemable
(Fifty Fourth Issue -Bonus Debentures)VIII
principal parts (STRPP) redeemable at par at the end of 6th year and in annual
9.00% Secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 304.94 406.51
instalments thereafter upto the end of 20th year respectively commencing
of ` 10,00,000/- each with five equal separately transferable redeemable
from 9 June 2017 and ending on 9 June 2031 (Thirty Ninth Issue - Private
principal parts (STRPP) redeemable at par at the end of 11th year and in
Placement)III
annual instalments thereafter upto the end of 15th year respectively
9.17% Secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 37.33 42.65
commencing from 25 January 2023 and ending on 25 January 2027 (Forty
of ` 15,00,000/- each with fifteen equal separately transferable redeemable
Second Issue - Private Placement)III
principal parts (STRPP) redeemable at par at the end of 6th year and in annual
8.10% Secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 763.70 763.99
instalments thereafter upto the end of 20th year respectively commencing
of ` 30,00,000/- each redeemable at par in three equal separately
from 22 March 2017 and ending on 22 March 2031 (Thirty Eighth Issue -
transferable redeemable principal parts (STRPP) at the end of 5th year, 10th
Private Placement)III
year & 15th year on 27 May 2021, 27 May 2026 and 27 May 2031 respectively
8.8086% Secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 37.24 42.55
(Sixty first issue - Private Placement)IX
of ` 15,00,000/- each with fifteen equal separately transferable redeemable
11.25% Secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds - 73.62
principal parts (STRPP) redeemable at par at the end of 6th year and in annual
of ` 10,00,000/- each redeemable at par in five equal annual instalments
instalments thereafter upto the end of 20th year respectively commencing
commencing from 6 November 2019 and ending on 6 November 2023
from 15 December 2016 and ending on 15 December 2030 (Thirty Sixth
(Twenty Seventh Issue - Private Placement)III
Issue - Private Placement)III
9.3473% Secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 48.06 53.38
8.785% Secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 59.57 68.07
of ` 15,00,000/- each with fifteen equal separately transferable redeemable
of ` 15,00,000/- each with fifteen equal separately transferable redeemable
principal parts (STRPP) redeemable at par at the end of 6th year and in annual
principal parts (STRPP) redeemable at par at the end of 6th year and in annual
instalments thereafter upto the end of 20th year respectively commencing
instalments thereafter upto the end of 20th year respectively commencing
from 20 July 2018 and ending on 20 July 2032 (Forty Sixth Issue - Private
from 15 September 2016 and ending on 15 September 2030 (Thirty Fifth
Placement)VI
Issue - Private Placement)III
9.4376% Secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 48.09 53.45
8.71% Secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 74.43 85.04
of ` 15,00,000/- each with fifteen equal separately transferable redeemable
of ` 15,00,000/- each with fifteen equal separately transferable redeemable
principal parts (STRPP) redeemable at par at the end of 6th year and in annual
principal parts (STRPP) redeemable at par at the end of 6th year and in annual
instalments thereafter upto the end of 20th year respectively commencing
instalments thereafter upto the end of 20th year respectively commencing
from 16 May 2018 and ending on 16 May 2032 (Forty Fifth Issue - Private
from 10 June 2016 and ending on 10 June 2030 (Thirty Fourth Issue - Private
Placement)VI
Placement)III
356 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 357
````` Crore ````` Crore
Particulars As at As at Particulars As at As at
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
8.8493% Secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 44.70 52.14 Foreign currency notes
of ` 15,00,000/- each with fifteen equal separately transferable redeemable
Unsecured
principal parts (STRPP) redeemable at par at the end of 6th year and in annual
4.500 % Fixed rate notes due for repayment on 19 March 2028 3,353.82 3,302.14
instalments thereafter upto the end of 20th year respectively commencing
from 25 March 2016 and ending on 25 March 2030 (Thirty Second Issue - 2.750 % Fixed rate notes due for repayment on 1 February 2027 4,590.69 4,554.79
Private Placement)III
4.250 % Fixed rate notes due for repayment on 26 February 2026 4,210.06 4,145.67
26,208.54 32,498.06
4.375 % Fixed rate notes due for repayment on 26 November 2024 4,261.27 4,199.85
Bonds/debentures
3.750 % Fixed rate notes due for repayment on 3 April 2024 3,847.75 3,721.68
Unsecured
20,263.59 19,924.13
6.87% Unsecured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 4,256.09 4,256.04
Term loans
of ` 10,00,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 21 April 2036 (Seventy
From Banks
Fourth Issue - Private Placement)
Secured
7.44% Unsecured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 510.85 510.77
of ` 10,00,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 15 April 2033 (Seventy Rupee term loansX 1,352.24 7,647.61
Ninth Issue - Private Placement)
Unsecured
7.44% Unsecured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 2,089.35 2,089.18
Foreign currency loans 22,436.54 19,828.94
of ` 10,00,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 25 August 2032 (Seventy
Rupee term loans 67,561.39 61,229.80
Eighth Issue - Private Placement)
From Others
6.74% Unsecured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 1,197.19 1,197.02
of ` 10,00,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 14 April 2032 (Seventy Secured
Sixth Issue - Private Placement)
Rupee term loansX 4,217.92 4,972.04
6.69% Unsecured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 3,110.09 3,109.83
Unsecured
of ` 10,00,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 13 September 2031
Foreign currency loans (guaranteed by GOI) 845.52 1,133.60
(Seventy Fifth Issue - Private Placement)
Other foreign currency loans 2,886.41 3,661.88
6.29% Unsecured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 1,042.06 1,042.00
of ` 10,00,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 11 April 2031 (Seventy Rupee term loans - 16.84
First Issue - Private Placement)
1,70,900.76 1,75,974.86
6.43% Unsecured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 2,528.45 2,528.08
Less: Current maturities of
of ` 10,00,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 27 January 2031 (Seventy
Bonds-secured 5,389.73 6,231.40
Third Issue - Private Placement)
Bonds-Unsecured 1,500.00 4,374.10
7.35% Unsecured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 3,210.75 -
of ` 1,00,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 17 April 2026 (Eightieth Foreign currency notes - Unsecured 7,975.25 -
Issue - Private Placement)
Foreign currency loans from banks - unsecured 416.74 425.05
7.48% Unsecured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 1,503.15 -
Rupee term loans from banks - secured 108.16 634.11
of ` 1,00,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 21 March 2026 (Eighty First
Rupee term loans from banks - unsecured 6,013.62 4,375.04
Issue - Private Placement)
Rupee term loans from others - secured 238.75 367.07
5.45% Unsecured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 4,100.57 4,100.21
of ` 10,00,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 15 October 2025 (Seventy Foreign currency loans from others - unsecured (guaranteed by GOI) 163.47 183.61
Second Issue - Private Placement)
Other foreign currency loans from others - unsecured 549.74 565.28
5.78% Unsecured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 1,580.06 1,580.00
Rupee term loans from others - unsecured - 16.57
of ` 10,00,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 29 April 2024 (Seventy
Interest accrued but not due on secured borrowings 795.01 853.42
Seventh Issue - Private Placement)
Interest accrued but not due on unsecured borrowings 1,591.22 1,633.52
6.55% Unsecured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds - 4,648.83
of ` 10,00,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 17 April 2023 (Seventy Total 1,46,159.07 1,56,315.69
Issue - Private Placement)
51,337.15 57,560.02
358 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 359
a) Details of terms of repayment and rate of interest X (i) Secured by a first priority charge on all assets, present & future, movable & immovable and land of 975.05 acres
and second charge on all inventories and receivables, in respect of loan from consortium led by SBI for
i) Unsecured foreign currency loans (guaranteed by GOI) - Others carry fixed rate of interest ranging from 1.80%
Muzzafarpur Thermal Power Station (Kanti Bijlee Utpadan Nigam Ltd., erstwhile Subsidiary of the Company)
p.a. to 2.30% p.a. and are repayable in 5 to 14 semi annual instalments.
expansion project. The security will rank pari-pasu with all term lenders of the project. The charge was created
ii) Unsecured foreign currency loans – Banks include loans of ````` 44.82 crore (31 March 2023: ` 67.13 crore) which in favor of SBI Cap Trustee Co. Ltd. and Canara Bank. Legal mortgage of land in favour of security trustee has
carry fixed rate of interest of 1.88% and loans of ````` 22,391.72 crore (31 March 2023: ` 19,761.81 crore) which been executed for 877.18 acres out of 975.05 acres of land. During the year, the loan has been repaid in full.
carry floating rate of interest linked to 6M USD SOFR/6M EURIBOR/3M TONA/6M TONA . These loans are repayable
(ii) Secured by a first pari passu charge on entire current assets and fixed assets of Nabinagar Thermal Power
in 1 to 23 semi annual/annual instalments as of 31 March 2024, commencing after moratorium period if any, as
Station (Nabinagar Power Generating Company Limited, erstwhile subsidiary of the Company).
per the terms of the respective loan agreements.
Secured by a first pari passu charge on all assets, present and future, movable and immovable through a deed of
iii) Unsecured foreign currency loans – Others include loans of ````` 1,155.55 crore (31 March 2023: ` 1,568.31 crore)
hypothecation and simple mortgage of 2500 acres of land of Nabinagar Thermal Power Station (Nabinagar Power
which carry fixed rate of interest ranging from 1.88% p.a. to 4.13% p.a and loans of ````` 1,730.86 crore (31 March
Generating Company Limited, erstwhile subsidiary of the Company).
2023: ` 2,093.57 crore) which carry floating rate of interest linked to 3M TONA/6M TONA. These loans are
repayable in 03 to 23 semi annual instalments as of 31 March 2024, commencing after moratorium period if XI Security cover mentioned at Sl. No. I to X is above 100% of the debt securities outstanding.
any, as per the terms of the respective loan agreements.
26. Non-current financial liabilities - Lease liabilities
iv) Unsecured rupee term loans from banks and others carry interest rate ranging from 7.60% p.a. to 8.20% p.a.
with monthly rests. These loans are repayable in half-yearly/yearly instalments as per the terms of the respective ````` Crore
loan agreements. The repayment period extends from a period of 9 to 15 years after a moratorium period of 3 Particulars As at As at
to 6 years. 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
v) Secured rupee term loans from banks and others carry interest rate ranging from 7.95% p.a. to 8.50% p.a. with Lease liabilities 987.39 986.23
monthly rests. These loans are repayable in quarterly instalments as per the terms of the respective loan
Less: current maturities of lease liabilities 162.87 170.79
agreements. The repayment period extends upto a period of 15 years after a moratorium period of 6 months to
Total 824.52 815.44
5 years.
a) The lease liabilities are repayable in instalments as per the terms of the respective lease agreements generally over
b) There has been no default in repayment of any of the loans or interest thereon as at the end of the year.
a period of more than 1 year and upto 99 years.
c) The company has used the borrowings from banks and financial institutions for the purposes for which they were
taken
27. Non-current liabilities - Other financial liabilities
Details of securities
````` Crore
I Secured by (I) English mortgage, on first pari-passu charge basis, of the office premises of the Company at Mumbai
Particulars As at As at
and (II) Equitable mortgage, by way of first charge, by deposit of title deeds of the immovable properties pertaining
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
to National Capital Power Station (including thermal & gas)
Payable for capital expenditure
II Secured by Equitable mortgage of the immovable properties pertaining to Vindhyachal Super Thermal Power Station
- micro and small enterprises 4.54 4.16
on first charge basis.
- other than micro and small enterprises 325.48 413.41
III Secured by (I) English mortgage, on first pari-passu charge basis, of the office premises of the Company at Mumbai
Deposits from contractors and others 1.62 1.62
and (II) Equitable mortgage of the immovable properties, on first pari-passu charge basis, pertaining to Sipat Super
Thermal Power Project by extension of charge already created. Contractual Obligations 133.86 86.52
IV Secured by Equitable mortgage, on pari-passu charge basis, of the immovable properties pertaining to Barh Super Others 0.10 0.10
Thermal Power Project. Total 465.60 505.81
V Secured by Equitable mortgage, on pari-passu charge basis, of the immovable properties pertaining to Vindhyachal a) Contractual obligations represent security deposit and retention money deducted from vendors at present value
Super Thermal Power Station. and includes Performance Guarantee Deposit (PGD) deducted by the Company from the Solar Power Developers
VI Secured by (I) English mortgage, on first pari-passu charge basis, of the office premises of the Company at Mumbai (SPD) in line with the MNRE Guidelines are earmarked for the purpose specified therein. The PGD shall be refunded
and (II) Equitable mortgage of the immovable properties, on first pari-passu charge basis, pertaining to National to SPDs without interest within three months after expiry of the 25 Year term of PPA subject to satisfactory
Capital Power Station (including thermal and gas) by extension of charge already created. performance of the project. In case the developer winds up his project or terminates the PPA prior to the completion
of the 25 Year term of PPA, the PGD shall be forfeited. Further the PGD may also be used in Payment Security
VII Secured by English mortgage of the immovable properties pertaining to Solapur Super Thermal Power Project on
Mechanism as specified in the guidelines.
first charge basis.
b) Disclosures as required under Companies Act, 2013 / MSMED Act, 2006 are provided in Note 73.
VIII Secured by Equitable mortgage of the immovable properties pertaining to Barh Super Thermal Power Project on
first charge basis. c) Amounts payable to related parties are disclosed in Note 59.
IX Secured by English mortgage, on pari-passu charge basis, of the immovable properties pertaining to Solapur Super
Thermal Power Project.
360 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 361
28. Non-current liabilities - Provisions Movement in deferred tax balances
````` Crore As at 31 March 2024 ````` Crore
Particulars As at As at Particulars As at Recognised in Recognised Others As at
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 1 April 2023 statement of in OCI 31 March
profit and loss 2024
Provision for
Deferred tax liability
Employee benefits 800.42 792.10
Difference in book depreciation and 31,449.40 4,628.00 - (207.34) 35,870.06
Mine Closure 494.01 323.80
tax depreciation
Stripping Activity Adjustments 603.60 611.88
Less: Deferred tax assets
1,898.03 1,727.78
Provisions 1,062.02 107.24 - (1.50) 1,167.76
a) Disclosures as per Ind AS 19 ‘Employee benefits’ are provided in Note 56. Statutory dues 259.00 67.49 - - 326.49
Leave encashment 497.29 42.53 - - 539.82
b) Disclosures required by Ind AS 37 ‘Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets’ are provided in Note 63.
Unabsorbed depreciation - - - -
29. Non-current liabilities - Deferred tax liabilities (net) MAT credit entitlement 19,016.68 1,434.79 - - 20,451.47
Others 0.34 317.65 - - 317.99
````` Crore
Net deferred tax (assets)/liabilities 10,614.07 2,658.30 - (205.84) 13,066.53
Particulars As at As at
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 As at 31 March 2023 ` Crore
Deferred tax liability Particulars As at Recognised in Recognised Others As at
Difference in book depreciation and tax depreciation 35,870.06 31,449.40 1 April 2022 statement of in OCI 31 March
profit and loss 2023
Less: Deferred tax assets
Deferred tax liability
Provisions 1,167.76 1,062.02
Difference in book depreciation and 28,945.71 3,853.37 - (1,349.68)* 31,449.40
Statutory dues 326.49 259.00
tax depreciation
Leave encashment 539.82 497.29 Less: Deferred tax assets
Unabsorbed depreciation - - Provisions 879.39 182.63 - - 1,062.02
MAT credit entitlement 20,451.47 19,016.68 Statutory dues 291.32 (32.32) - - 259.00
Others 317.99 0.34 Leave encashment 472.44 24.85 - - 497.29
Total 13,066.53 10,614.07 Unabsorbed depreciation 847.80 (847.80) - - -
MAT credit entitlement 16,263.41 2,753.27 - - 19,016.68
a) Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities have been offset as they relate to the same governing laws.
Others 6.96 (6.62) - - 0.34
b) The Company has been recognising MAT credit entitlement available to the Company as the same is likely to give
Net deferred tax (assets)/liabilities 10,184.39 1,779.36 - (1,349.68) 10,614.07
future economic benefits in the form of availability of set off against future income tax liability.
* includes amount of ` 1,205.18 crore transferred to NGEL pursuant to a Business Transfer Agreement for transfer of
c) Disclosures as per Ind AS 12 - ‘Income Taxes’ are provided in Note 55.
renewable energy assets executed as at 28 February 2023.
d) Others mainly include deferred tax assets on account of lease liabilities.
30. Other non-current liabilities
````` Crore
Particulars As at As at
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Government grants 83.27 70.64
a) Government grants include grant received in advance amounting to ````` 15.00 crore (31 March 2023: ` 8.47 crore) for
which attached conditions are to be fulfilled / works to be completed relating to various solar power plants. This
amount will be recognized as revenue corresponding to the depreciation charge in future years on completion of
related projects.
b) Balance Government grants represent unamortised portion of grant received. This includes ````` 47.55 crore (31 March
2023: ` 39.64 crore) received from Solar Energy Corporation of India under MNRE Scheme for setting up Solar PV
power projects. This amount will be recognized as revenue corresponding to the depreciation charge in future
years. Refer Note 35 w.r.t. current portion of Government grants.
362 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 363
31. Current financial liabilities - Borrowings 32. Current financial liabilities - Lease liabilities
````` Crore ````` Crore
Particulars As at As at Particulars As at As at
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Current borrowings Current maturities of lease liabilities 162.87 170.79
Bills discounted - Secured 1,824.71 1,287.19
a) Refer Note 26 for details in respect of non-current lease labilities.
Other Loans
33. Current financial liabilities - Trade payables
Unsecured
````` Crore
Short term working capital loan from Banks 11,500.00 9,550.00
Particulars As at As at
Commercial paper 3,379.38 1,959.73
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
16,704.09 12,796.92
Trade payables for goods and services
Current maturities of non-current borrowings
Total outstanding dues of
Bonds - Secured 5,389.73 6,231.40
- micro and small enterprises 538.52 272.77
Bonds - Unsecured 1,500.00 4,374.10
- creditors other than micro and small enterprises 8,936.14 9,325.33
Foreign currency notes - Unsecured 7,975.25 -
Total 9,474.66 9,598.10
From Banks
a) Disclosures as required under Companies Act, 2013 / MSMED Act, 2006 are provided in Note 73.
Secured
b) Amounts payable to related parties are disclosed in Note 59.
Rupee term loans 108.16 634.11
c) Trade payables ageing schedule
Unsecured
As at 31 March 2024 ````` Crore
Foreign currency loans 416.74 425.05
Particulars Unbilled Not Due Outstanding for following periods from Total
Rupee term loans 6,013.62 4,375.04
Dues due date of payment
From Others Less than 1-2 2-3 More than
Secured 1 year years years 3 years
Rupee term loans 238.75 367.07 (i) MSME 359.96 2.12 176.44 - - - 538.52
Unsecured (ii) Others 2,523.66 0.01 3,535.31 1,171.28 128.57 1,577.27 8,936.10
Foreign currency loans (guaranteed by GOI) 163.47 183.61 (iii) Disputed dues – MSME - - - - - - -
(iv) Disputed dues – Others - - - - - 0.04 0.04
Other foreign currency loans 549.74 565.28
Total 2,883.62 2.13 3,711.75 1,171.28 128.57 1,577.31 9,474.66
Rupee term loans - 16.57
22,355.46 17,172.23 As at 31 March 2023 ` Crore
Total 39,059.55 29,969.15 Particulars Unbilled Not Due Outstanding for following periods from Total
Dues due date of payment
a) The outstanding short term working capital loans from banks carry fixed interest rate ranging between 7.04% to
Less than 1-2 2-3 More than
7.30% p.a. (31 March 2023: 6.98% p.a. to 7.38% p.a.) repayable on due dates, in line with respective arrangements
1 year years years 3 years
with the lender banks. Commercial paper carry discounted interest of 7.59 % p.a.(31 March 2023: Ranging from
5.20 % p.a.to 7.30 % p.a.) . (i) MSME 178.19 15.07 79.44 0.01 - 0.06 272.77
b) Borrowings under Commercial paper are net of unamortised discount as at 31 March 2024 amounting to ````` 120.62 (ii) Others 2,065.81 171.83 4,848.43 343.83 189.28 1,705.94 9,325.12
crore (31 March 2023: ` 40.27 crore) (iii) Disputed dues – MSME - - - - - - -
c) Details in respect of rate of interest and terms of repayment of current maturities of secured and unsecured non- (iv) Disputed dues – Others - - - - - 0.21 0.21
current borrowings indicated above are disclosed in Note 25. Total 2,244.00 186.90 4,927.87 343.84 189.28 1,706.21 9,598.10
d) The secured current borrowings relating to bills discounted are secured against the book debts, present and future.
Refer note 15 (d) for detailed disclosure.
e) There has been no default in repayment of any of the loans or interest thereon as at the end of the year.
364 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 365
34. Current liabilities - other financial liabilities 35. Current liabilities - Other current liabilities
````` Crore ````` Crore
Particulars As at As at Particulars As at As at
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Interest accrued but not due on Advances from customers and others 636.77 419.00
Unsecured current borrowings 63.49 36.84 Government grants 3.94 3.53
Secured non current borrowings 795.01 853.42 Other payables
Unsecured non current borrowings 1,591.22 1,633.52 Statutory dues 618.90 789.72
Unpaid dividends 17.74 19.07 Others 0.72 0.72
Unpaid matured deposits and interest accrued thereon 0.19 0.19 Total 1,260.33 1,212.97
Unpaid matured bonds and interest accrued thereon 12.69 9.62
a) Advance received for the DDUGJY of ````` 306.93 crore (31 March 2023: ` 282.22 crore) is included in ‘Advance from
Book overdraft 31.38 168.70 customers and others’. Refer Note 35 (b). Tax deducted at source on the interest is included in ‘Advance tax and tax
deducted at source’ - Note 12.
Payable to customers 1,077.05 1,289.39
Payable for capital expenditure b) Also refer Note 30 w.r.t. accounting of Government grants.
- micro and small enterprises 182.57 127.23
36. Current liabilities - Provisions
- other than micro and small enterprises 13,790.35 15,248.60
````` Crore
Other payables
Particulars As at As at
Deposits from contractors and others 231.57 195.41
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Contractual Obligations 2,454.81 2,409.24
Provision for
Payable to employees 1,046.96 1,099.50
Employee benefits 1,719.26 1,597.14
Payable to Solar Payment Security Fund 49.18 37.97 Obligations incidental to land acquisition 1,727.34 2,295.07
Others 626.33 505.34 Tariff adjustments 801.14 817.61
Total 21,970.54 23,634.04 Arbitration awards 2,021.62 2,646.94
a) Unpaid dividends, matured deposits, bonds and interest include the amounts which have either not been claimed Others 106.85 113.49
by the investors/holders of the equity shares/bonds/fixed deposits or are on hold pending legal formalities etc. Out
Total 6,376.21 7,470.25
of the above, the amount required to be transferred to the Investor Education and Protection Fund (IEPF) has been
transferred. a) Disclosures required by Ind AS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’ are provided in Note 56.
b) Other payables - Others’ mainly includes ````` 41.52 crore (31 March 2023: ` 63.68 crore) towards the implementation b) Disclosures required by Ind AS 37 ‘Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets’ are provided in Note 63.
of Deen Dayal Upadhyay Gram Jyoti Yojana (DDUGJY) Scheme of the GOI being carried out by the Company. The
c) Provision for others mainly comprise ````` 99.40 crore (31 March 2023: ` 90.79 crore) towards cost of unfinished
funds for the implementation of these schemes are provided by the agencies nominated by the GOI in this regard.
minimum work programme demanded by the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas (MoP&NG) including interest
Further, ‘Other payables - Others’ also include ````` 293.29 crore (31 March 2023: ` 251.53 crore) in respect of an
thereon in relation to Block AA-ONN-2003/2 (Refer Note 65) and ````` 5.11 crore (31 March 2023: ` 5.97 crore) towards
amount payable under a contract which was under dispute which has been since settled and balance towards
provision for shortage in property, plant and equipment on physical verification pending investigation.
amount payable to hospitals, etc.
c) The Company had obtained exemption from the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA), GOI in respect of applicability 37. Current liabilities - Current tax liabilities (net)
of Section 58A from the erstwhile Companies Act, 1956 in respect of deposits held from the dependants of employees
````` Crore
who die or suffer permanent total disability under the ‘Employees Rehabilitation Scheme’ (said amount is included
Particulars As at As at
in “Other payables - Others”). Consequent upon enactment of the Companies Act, 2013, the Company has written
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
to the MCA for clarification on continuation of above exemption granted earlier, which is still awaited. Based on an
expert opinion, the amount accepted under the Scheme is not considered as a deposit under the Companies Act, Current tax - 4,188.03
2013. Less: Advance tax paid - 4,125.06
d) Contractual obligation includes security deposit and retention money deducted from vendors. Total - 62.97
e) Disclosures as required under the Companies Act, 2013 / MSMED Act, 2006 are provided in Note 73.
f) Amounts payable to related parties are disclosed in Note 59.
366 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 367
38. Deferred revenue a) (i) CERC notified The Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Terms and Conditions of Tariff) Regulations, 2019
````` Crore vide Order dated 7 March 2019 (Regulations, 2019) for determination of tariff for the tariff period 2019-24.
CERC has issued provisional tariff orders in respect of thirty nine stations for the tariff period 2019-24. Pending
Particulars As at As at
issue of provisional tariff orders in respect of balance stations, capacity charges are billed to beneficiaries in
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
accordance with the tariff approved and applicable as on 31 March 2019, as provided in Regulations, 2019. In
On account of
case of new stations, which got commercialised on and after 1 April 2019 and stations where tariff approved
Income from foreign currency fluctuation 2,328.01 2,616.87 and applicable as on 31 March 2019 is pending from CERC, billing is done based on capacity charges as filed
with CERC in tariff petition. Accordingly, capacity charges provisionally billed for the year ended 31 March 2024
a) Foreign exchange rate variation (FERV) on foreign currency loans and interest thereon is recoverable from/payable
is ````` 51,405.34 crore (31 March 2023 ` 47,631.73 crore). Energy and other charges are billed as per the operational
to the customers in line with the Tariff Regulations. Keeping in view the opinion of the EAC of ICAI, the Company is
norms specified in the Regulations 2019. Accordingly, energy charges billed for the year ended 31 March 2024
recognizing deferred foreign currency fluctuation asset by corresponding credit to deferred income from foreign
is ````` 96,337.27 crore (31 March 2023 ` 97,042.05 crore).
currency fluctuation in respect of the FERV on foreign currency loans adjusted in the cost of property, plant and
equipment, which is recoverable from the customers in future years as provided in material accounting policy no. (ii) Capacity charges for the year ended 31 March 2024 have been provisionally recognized considering the provisions
C.13.1 (Note 1). This amount will be recognized as revenue corresponding to the depreciation charge in future of CERC Tariff Regulations amounting to ````` 54,458.51 crore (31 March 2023 ` 49,832.28 crore). Energy and
years. The amount does not constitute a liability to be discharged in future periods and hence, it has been disclosed Other charges for the year ended 31 March 2024 have been recognized at ````` 98,307.09 crore (31 March 2023
separately from equity and liabilities. ` 1,00,306.61 crore) as per the operational norms specified in the Regulations 2019.
b) Capacity charges for the year ended 31 March 2024 include ````` 1,661.51 crore (31 March 2023 ` 1,829.50 crore)
39. Regulatory deferral account credit balances
pertaining to earlier years on account of impact of CERC orders and other adjustments. Energy and other charges for
````` Crore
the year ended 31 March 2024 ````` 327.76 crore (31 March 2023 ` 3,206.12 crore) pertaining to earlier years on
Particulars As at As at account of revision of energy charges due to grade slippages and other adjustments. Other adjustments during PY
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 include an amount of ` 3,097.04 crore on account of adjustment of ‘Net movement in regulatory deferral account
balances (net of taxes)’ relating to reimbursement of ash transportation cost for the period from 1 April 2019 to 31
Exchange differences 280.32 -
March 2022 pursuant to Order of CERC dated 28 October 2022.
Regulatory deferral account balances have been accounted in line with material accounting policy no. C.4. Refer Note
70 for detailed disclosures. Refer Note 22 for Regulatory deferral account debit balances. c) Sales for the year ended 31 March 2024 include ````` Nil (31 March 2023 ` 262.97 crore) on account of income tax
receivable from the beneficiaries as per Regulations, 2004. Sales for the year ended 31 March 2024 also include
40. Revenue from operations 124.70 crore (31 March 2023 ` 87.51 crore) on account of deferred tax materialized which is recoverable from
````` Crore beneficiaries as per Regulations, 2019.
Particulars For the year For the year d) Energy sales include electricity duty amounting to ````` 1,668.20 crore (31 March 2023: ` 1,516.71 crore).
ended ended
e) Revenue from operations for the year ended 31 March 2024 include ````` 3,997.78 crore (31 March 2023: ` 3,759.32
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
crore) on account of sale of energy through trading (gross).
Energy sales 1,56,155.82 1,57,762.43
f) Other operating revenue includes ````` 77.90 crore (31 March 2023: ` 92.04 crore) towards energy internally consumed,
Sale of energy through trading 3,990.52 3,753.48
valued at variable cost of generation and the corresponding amount is included in power charges in Note 46.
Consultancy, project management and supervision fee 170.59 154.08
g) CERC Regulations provides that where after the truing-up, the tariff recovered is less/more than the tariff approved
Lease rentals on assets on operating lease 19.58 19.58 by the Commission, the generating Company shall recover from /pay to the beneficiaries the under/over recovered
1,60,336.51 1,61,689.57 amount along-with simple interest. Based on the above, the interest recoverable from the beneficiaries amounting
Sale of fly ash/ash products 492.16 396.51 to ````` 1,512.58 crore (31 March 2023: ` 1,609.33 crore) has been accounted as ‘Interest from beneficiaries’. Further,
the amount payable to the beneficiaries has been accounted as ‘Interest to beneficiaries’ in Note 46.
Less: Transferred to fly ash utilization reserve fund 492.16 396.51
h) Provision written back-others includes write back of provision towards water conservation fund at few projects of
- -
the Company amounting to ````` Nil (31 March 2023: ` 242.98 crore), which was no longer required.
Other operating revenues
i) The Power Purchase Agreements (PPA) signed in respect of a power station was operative initially for a period of five
Interest from beneficiaries 1,512.58 1,609.33
years with the beneficiary which may be extended, renewed or replaced as the parties mutually agree. The Company
Energy internally consumed 77.90 92.04
has continued to classify these arrangement with its customers as lease based on the practical expedient provided
Interest income on assets under finance lease 23.81 32.53 in Appendix C of Ind AS 116. Accordingly, recovery of capacity charges towards depreciation, interest on loan capital
Recognized from Government grants 4.00 94.88 & return on equity (pre-tax) components from the beneficiary are considered as lease rentals on the assets which
are on operating lease.
Provision written back
Tariff adjustments 16.47 - j) The Company had ascertained that the PPA entered into for Stage-I of a power station with the beneficiary falls
under the definition of finance lease. Accordingly, the written down value of the specified assets was derecognized
Others 0.01 242.98
from PPE and accounted as Finance Lease Receivable (FLR) on transition date to Ind AS. The Company has continued
Income form Trading of ESCerts 13.75 8.44
to classify this arrangement with its customer as lease based on the practical expedient provided in Appendix C of
1,648.52 2,080.20 Ind AS 116. Accordingly, recovery of capacity charges towards depreciation (including AAD), interest on loan capital
Total 1,61,985.03 1,63,769.77
368 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 369
& return on equity (pre-tax) components from the beneficiary are continued to be adjusted against FLR. The interest ````` Crore
component of the FLR and amount received on account of revision of tariff of previous periods in respect of the
Particulars For the year For the year
above three elements are continued to be recognised as ‘Interest income on Assets under finance lease’.
ended ended
k) CERC vide notification dated 19 February 2021, notified the Second amendment to Tariff Regulations 2019, which 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
inter alia includes mechanism for determination of transfer price of coal from integrated coal mines to generating Obsolescence in inventories 3.65 28.05
stations and are effective for the period 2019-24. Coal extracted from Company’s captive mines and supplied to Arbitration cases 143.38 33.92
generating stations have been accounted considering these Regulations. Unserviceable capital works 32.95 3.84
Others 4.54 5.15
41. Other income
3,742.41 4,010.91
````` Crore
Less: Transferred to expenditure during construction period (net) - 19.05 55.42
Particulars For the year For the year Note 47
ended ended
Transferred to expenditure during development of coal mines 1.12 0.85
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
(net) - Note 48
Interest from Total 3,722.24 3,954.64
Financial assets at amortized cost
a) Interest from others’ includes interest on advance to APIIC for drawl of water and deposits with LIC towards annuity
Non-current trade receivables 155.96 149.88 to the land oustees.
Loan to subsidiary companies 94.29 81.45 b) Miscellaneous income includes income from township recoveries and receipts towards insurance claims.
Loan to employees 62.98 61.92 c) ‘Provisions written back - Others’ include provision for shortage in construction stores, shortage in property, plant
Deposits with banks 218.40 67.76 and equipment and other provisions no longer required..
Deposits with banks out of fly ash utilization reserve fund 56.30 29.15 d) During the year, certain disputes with vendors which were under arbitration were settled pursuant to Vivadh se
Vishwas II (Contractual liabilities) scheme of GOI. Consequentially, provision created in the earlier years have been.
Less : Transferred to fly ash utilization reserve fund 56.30 29.15
- - 42. Fuel cost
Deposits with banks - DDUGJY funds 18.55 13.81 ````` Crore
Less : Transferred to DDUGJY advance from customers 18.55 13.81 Particulars For the year For the year
- - ended ended
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Other investments in Joint venture companies 47.26 28.79
Coal 87,985.99 92,081.38
Advance to contractors and suppliers 113.65 166.02
Gas 4,604.50 3,052.30
Income tax refunds 296.71 1.13
Naptha 2.91 158.43
Others 60.12 65.82
Oil 1,285.57 1,495.00
Dividend from Biomass pellets and other chemicals 158.52 64.39
Non-current investments in Total 94,037.49 96,851.50
Subsidiary companies 904.20 1,050.25
43. Employee benefits expense
Joint venture companies 725.52 1,285.33
````` Crore
Equity instruments designated at fair value through OCI 9.36 6.96
Particulars For the year For the year
Other non-operating income
ended ended
Late payment surcharge from beneficiaries 303.42 429.82 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Hire charges for equipment 1.21 1.33 Salaries and wages 5,030.70 5,146.38
Sale of scrap 180.60 148.67 Contribution to provident and other funds 909.10 777.57
Gain on Option Contract 0.11 5.90 Staff welfare expenses 697.55 626.40
6,637.35 6,550.35
Miscellaneous income 317.48 303.90
Less: Allocated to fuel inventory 343.71 319.11
Profit on de-recognition of property, plant and equipment 29.74 31.73
Transferred to expenditure during construction period (net)- Note 47 443.67 506.73
Lease rent from investment property 5.93 0.19
Transferred to expenditure during development of coal mines (net) - 70.56 65.95
Provisions written back
Note 48
Doubtful loans, advances and claims 20.77 0.17 Reimbursements for employees on deputation/secondment 109.31 99.53
Shortage in inventories 10.18 52.93 Total 5,670.10 5,559.03
370 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 371
a) Disclosures as per Ind AS 19 - ‘Employee Benefits’ in respect of provision made towards various employee benefits 45. Depreciation, amortization and impairment expense
are provided in Note 56. ````` Crore
b) Expenses on ex-gratia payments under voluntary retirement scheme are charged to statement of profit and loss in Particulars For the year For the year
the year incurred. ended ended
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
44. Finance costs
On property, plant and equipment - Note 2 15,514.46 14,544.59
````` Crore
On Investment Property - Note 4 0.86 -
Particulars For the year For the year
On intangible assets - Note 5 35.83 41.85
ended ended
15,551.15 14,586.44
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Less :Allocated to fuel inventory 1,209.29 1,059.25
Finance costs on financial liabilities measured at amortized cost
Transferred to expenditure during construction period(net)-Note 47 40.93 65.11
Bonds 4,004.11 4,271.35
Transferred to expenditure during development of coal mines (net) 57.98 53.18
Foreign currency term loans 828.61 472.66
- Note 48
Rupee term loans 5,771.49 5,812.67
Adjustment with deferred revenue from deferred foreign currency 299.80 272.19
Foreign currency bonds/notes 830.17 933.64
fluctuation
Cash credit 598.20 256.48
Total 13,943.15 13,136.71
Commercial papers 144.89 396.93
a) Refer Note 72 w.r.t. Depreciation expense of right of use assets.
Others 125.84 127.27
12,303.31 12,271.00 46. Other expenses
Interest on non financial items 21.13 11.11 ````` Crore
Exchange differences regarded as an adjustment to borrowing costs 82.90 457.54 Particulars For the year For the year
Other borrowing costs ended ended
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Guarantee fee 13.58 15.83
Power charges 324.86 363.47
Others 8.06 9.70
Less: Recovered from contractors and employees 65.88 65.17
21.64 25.53
258.98 298.30
Sub-total 12,428.98 12,765.18
Water charges 894.05 923.16
Less:Transferred to expenditure during construction period (net) - Note 47 1,993.72 2,589.03
Cost of captive coal produced 5,150.59 3,102.15
Transferred to expenditure during development of coal mines (net) - 184.44 196.92
Note 48 Stores consumed 278.97 248.60
Total 10,250.82 9,979.23 Rent 23.54 43.36
Repairs and maintenance
a) Finance costs on financial liabilities measured at amortized cost - Others represent unwinding of lease liabilities,
vendor liabilities and provisions Buildings 367.78 386.36
Plant and equipment 4,746.28 4,097.50
b) ‘Other borrowing costs - Others’ include bond issue and service expenses, commitment charges, exposure premium
and insurance premium & other expenses on foreign currency loans / bonds/ notes. Others 420.09 413.63
c) Interest on non financial items above includes interest on shortfall in payment of advance income-tax amounting 5,534.15 4,897.49
````` 2.52 crore (31 March 2023: ` 7.95 crore) Load dispatch centre charges 83.30 38.79
d) Refer Note 72 w.r.t. Interest expense relating to lease obligations. Insurance 336.58 333.60
Interest to beneficiaries 252.30 285.85
Loss on fair valuation of non-current trade receivables at amortised cost 37.74 386.84
Rates and taxes 147.00 159.06
Water cess and environment protection cess 1.24 0.47
Training and recruitment expenses 61.80 49.94
Less : Receipts 1.11 0.51
60.69 49.43
372 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 373
````` Crore ````` Crore
Particulars For the year For the year Particulars For the year For the year
ended ended ended ended
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Communication expenses 90.69 76.45 Impairment of investments 181.05 14.24
Travelling expenses 247.70 250.22 Obsolescence in inventories 38.74 52.58
Remuneration to auditors 6.41 6.44 Shortages in inventories 10.29 8.77
Advertisement and publicity 68.85 39.85 Unserviceable capital works 150.22 18.12
Electricity duty 1,555.13 1,430.32 Unfinished minimum work programme for oil and gas exploration 8.60 11.01
Security expenses 1,260.31 1,141.81 Arbitration cases 125.65 155.40
Entertainment expenses 71.52 70.93 Shortages in construction stores 3.09 2.35
Expenses for guest house 84.33 73.09 Doubtful loans, advances and claims 500.27 32.73
Less: Recoveries 5.06 5.14 Others 7.41 5.35
79.27 67.95 1,025.32 635.88
Education expenses 71.95 76.80 Total 15,213.43 14,474.59
Donation/Grants - 0.03
a) Expenses on ex-gratia payments under voluntary retirement scheme, training & recruitment, voluntary community
Ash utilization and marketing expenses 4,170.11 2,650.93 development and preliminary expenses on account of new projects incurred prior to approval of feasibility report/
Directors sitting fee 0.79 0.71 techno economic clearance are charged to statement of profit and loss in the year incurred.
Professional charges and consultancy fee 86.80 138.35 b) During the development stage of mine, transfer price of coal extracted from Company’s captive mine has been
Legal expenses 76.20 77.84 determined considering the CERC Regulations. The same has been netted from the cost of captive coal and carried
to ‘Development of coal mines’ (Note 3) through ‘Transferred to expenditure during development of coal mines’
EDP hire and other charges 72.67 68.26
(Note 48).
Printing and stationery 7.73 6.12
c) Details of remuneration to auditors:
Oil and gas exploration expenses 0.09 0.06
As auditor
Hiring of vehicles 133.30 118.52
Audit fee 2.36 2.54
Net loss/(gain) in foreign currency transactions and translations (1,358.38) 706.49
Tax audit fee 0.79 0.89
Derivatives MTM loss/(gain) (net) 10.51 -
Limited review fees 1.56 1.40
Horticulture expenses 76.11 75.98
In other capacity
Hire charges of helicopter/aircraft 5.02 4.08
Other services (certification fee) 0.56 0.69
Hire charges of construction equipment 7.20 5.55
Reimbursement of expenses 1.14 0.92
Transport vehicle running expenses 9.17 8.72
Total 6.41 6.44
Loss on de-recognition of property, plant and equipment 215.46 165.36
Miscellaneous expenses 620.70 215.11 Remuneration to auditors includes ````` 0.10 crore (31 March 2023: ` 0.38 crore) relating to earlier year.
20,644.44 18,169.98 d) CERC Regulations provides that where after the truing-up, the tariff recovered is more than the tariff approved by
the Commission, the generating Company shall pay to the beneficiaries the over recovered amount along-with
Less :Allocated to fuel inventory 5,077.39 3,647.69
simple interest. Accordingly, the interest payable to the beneficiaries amounting to ````` 252.30 crore (31 March 2023:
Transferred to expenditure during construction period (net)-Note 47 186.72 390.78
` 285.85 crore) has been accounted and disclosed as ‘Interest to beneficiaries’.
Transferred to expenditure during development of coal mines (net)- 1,037.38 335.60
e) Miscellaneous expenses include expenditure on books & periodicals, workshops, operating expenses of DG sets,
Note 48
brokerage and commission, bank charges, furnishing expenses, etc.
Transferred to derivative MTM loss/(gain) recoverable/(payable) 10.51 -
f) Provisions for unserviceable capital works includes an amount of ` 117.62 crore in respect of one of the hydro
from/ to beneficiaries
projects whose construction activities have been stopped by the order of hon’ble Supreme Court of India in May
Transferred to fly ash utilization reserve fund 326.54 262.85
2014.
Transferred to corporate social responsibility expenses 18.36 9.67
g) Provisions for doubtful loans, advances and claims include an amount of ` 500.00 crore being the amount deposited
13,987.54 13,523.39
as per the orders of hon’ble Delhi Court- Refer Note 63.
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) expenses (Refer Note 77) 200.57 315.32
h) Provision for impairment of investment for the year includes an amount of ` 149.10 crore in respect of one of the
Provisions for
Joint Venture Companies as per the impairment assessment carried out. Refer Note 7 and 62.
Tariff adjustments - 335.33
i) Provisions - Others include provision for doubtful debts, shortages in property, plant and equipment and other
losses.
374 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 375
j) Preliminary expenses on account of new projects incurred prior to approval of feasibility report/techno economic ````` Crore
clearance, training and recruitment expenses and voluntary community development expenses are charged to
Particulars For the year For the year
statement of profit and loss.
ended ended
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
47. Expenditure during construction period (net) *
Professional charges and consultancy fee 5.30 14.27
````` Crore
Legal expenses 5.26 8.15
Particulars For the year For the year
EDP hire and other charges 1.26 0.91
ended ended
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 Printing and stationery 0.35 0.35
A. Employee benefits expense Miscellaneous expenses 17.62 22.31
Salaries and wages 357.14 418.17 Total (D) 186.72 390.78
Contribution to provident and other funds 50.00 49.83 E. Less: Other income
Staff welfare expenses 36.53 38.73 Interest from advances to contractors and suppliers 16.28 37.16
Total (A) 443.67 506.73 Interest others - 12.81
B. Finance costs Hire charges for equipment 0.04 0.32
Finance costs on financial liabilities measured at amortized cost Sale of scrap 0.03 0.42
Bonds 549.03 878.87 Miscellaneous income 2.70 4.71
Foreign currency term loans 335.64 177.60 Total (E) 19.05 55.42
Rupee term loans 946.90 1,065.02 F. Net actuarial losses on defined benefit plans (1.34) (1.54)
Foreign currency bonds/notes 111.39 205.82 Grand total (A+B+C+D-E+F) ** 2,644.65 3,494.69
Others 24.49 54.90 * Other than for expenditure during development of coal mines- (Note 48)
Exchange differences regarded as an adjustment to borrowing costs (4.69) 174.90
** Carried to capital work-in-progress - (Note 3)
Other borrowing costs 30.96 31.92
48. Expenditure during development of coal mines (net)
Total (B) 1,993.72 2,589.03
````` Crore
C. Depreciation and amortization expense 40.93 65.11
Particulars For the year For the year
D. Other expenses
ended ended
Power charges 39.72 115.65
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Less: Recovered from contractors and employees 2.70 6.67
A. Employee benefits expense
37.02 108.98
Salaries and wages 55.19 52.07
Water charges 7.54 100.04
Contribution to provident and other funds 7.90 6.19
Rent 1.07 1.08
Staff welfare expenses 7.47 7.69
Repairs and maintenance
Total (A) 70.56 65.95
Buildings 5.54 2.82
B. Finance costs
Plant and equipment 0.42 0.69
Finance costs on financial liabilities measured at amortized cost
Others 35.39 31.10
Bonds 45.04 68.38
41.35 34.61
Foreign currency term loans 29.90 12.08
Insurance - -
Rupee term loans 98.97 100.70
Rates and taxes 3.07 3.72
Others 10.22 8.80
Communication expenses 4.21 4.81
Exchange differences regarded as an adjustment to borrowing costs (2.09) 5.28
Travelling expenses 18.11 20.33
Other borrowing costs 2.40 1.68
Advertisement and publicity 0.14 0.21
Total (B) 184.44 196.92
Security expenses 37.44 63.73
C. Depreciation and amortization expense 57.98 53.18
Entertainment expenses 2.58 3.69
Expenses for guest house 4.40 3.59
376 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 377
````` Crore c) The levy of transit fee/entry tax on supplies of fuel to some of the power stations has been paid under protest as the
matters are sub-judice at various courts. In case the Company gets refund/demand from fuel suppliers/tax authorities
Particulars For the year For the year
on settlement of these cases, the same will be passed on to respective beneficiaries.
ended ended
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 50 The Company is executing a 4 X 130 MW Hydro Electric Project in the State of Uttarakhand. After the reports of land
D. Other expenses subsidence in Joshimath Town, Additional District Magistrate, Chamoli has issued order on 5 January 2023 to stop all the
construction activities till further orders. Hon’ble High Court of Uttarakhand on hearing a public interest litigation on 12
Power charges 2.26 3.21
January 2023, has directed the State to strictly enforce the ban on construction in Joshimath area . As per Company’s
Water charges 0.25 -
understanding, the land subsidence in Joshimath does not have any link with the Project which has also been confirmed
Rent 0.20 0.23
through various expert reports submitted by the State of Uttarakhand in the Hon’ble High Court of Uttarakhand on 22
Repairs and maintenance September 2023. The Hon’ble Court on 25 September 2023 directed the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA)
Buildings 0.16 0.03 to make its recommendations and next date of hearing is 20 June 2024. The developments are closely being monitored
by the Company. Aggregate cost incurred on the project up to 31 March 2024 is ````` 6,671.30 crore (31 March 2023:
Others 11.46 4.78
` 6,252.31 crore). Technical and administrative works related to the project are going on. Management does not envisage
11.62 4.81
any threat to the continuance of the project and is confident that a viable solution in connection with the project shall
Cost of captive coal produced 977.43 273.73
be arrived in due course.
Insurance -
51 Note on Exceptional items in the Statement of Profit and Loss
Rates and taxes 0.93 7.59
The recovery of capacity charges based on capacity declaration on RLNG in respect to Ratnagiri Gas and Power Private
Communication expenses 1.29 0.99
Limited (RGPPL), a subsidiary of the Company, was challenged by Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company
Travelling expenses 3.11 2.87
Limited (MSEDCL) considering the same as violation of Power Purchase Agreement (PPA). However, Central Electricity
Advertisement and publicity 0.30 0.20 Regulatory Commission (CERC) vide its order dated 30 July 2013 as well as Appellate Tribunal for Electricity (APTEL) vide
Security expenses 16.01 15.55 its order dated 22 April 2015, upheld RGPPL’s right to recover the capacity charges which was claimed by RGPPL amounting
to ` 5,287.76 crore together with interest. MSEDCL approached the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India vide civil appeal no.
Entertainment expenses 0.93 0.43
1922 of 2023 and the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India vide its judgement dated 9 November 2023 dismissed the civil
Expenses for guest house 0.96 1.47
appeal observing that MSEDCL is misinterpreting the clauses of PPA and ordered to continue the execution petition
Professional charges and consultancy fee 6.29 9.98
before the APTEL. RGPPL filed execution petition in APTEL on 1 December 2023 disposal of the same by APTEL is awaited.
Legal expenses 2.93 5.19
In the meanwhile MSEDCL has paid an adhoc payment of ` 500.00 crore upto 31 March 2024. Further discussions are on
EDP hire and other charges 0.13 0.37
with MSEDCL along with Ministry of Power (MoP) for liquidation of outstanding dues of RGPPL.
Printing and stationery 0.30 0.12
The Company has an investment of ````` 834.55 crore ( 31 March 2023: ` 834.55 crore) in RGPPL. The entire investment was
Miscellaneous expenses 12.44 8.86
considered impaired and provided for in the earlier years based on the financial position of the Subsidiary. The amount
Total (D) 1,037.38 335.60 provided includes an amount of ` 782.95 crore which was presented as an exceptional item in the financial year 2016-
E. Less: Other income 17. Remaining carrying value of the investment was also provided in the earlier years in the Note for Other expenses.
During the year, fair valuation of investments in RGPPL was carried out and as per the valuation, the total equity value in
Interest from advances to contractors and suppliers 1.00 0.64
the Company has been ascertained as ` 1,764.70 crore. Considering the above, the provision made in the earlier years
Miscellaneous income 0.12 0.21
has been written back and disclosed as an Exceptional item in the Statement of Profit and Loss. (Also refer Note 7(b) and
Total (E) 1.12 0.85
Note 62(g)).
F. Net actuarial losses on defined benefit plans (0.18) 0.29
Grand total (A+B+C+D-E+F) * 1,349.06 651.09 52 Disclosure as per Ind AS 1 ‘Presentation of financial statements’
* Carried to capital work-in-progress - (Note 3) a) Changes in Material Accounting Policy Information:
49 a) The Company has a system of obtaining periodic confirmation of balances from banks and other parties. There are There are no material changes in the accounting policies, However, during the year, following changes to the
no unconfirmed balances in respect of bank accounts and borrowings from banks & financial institutions. With accounting policies have been made:
regard to receivables for energy sales, the Company sends demand intimations to the beneficiaries with details of i) Scrap generated out of construction or maintenance jobs was hither to accounted as inventory on accrual basis.
amount paid and balance outstanding which can be said to be automatically confirmed on receipt of subsequent During the year an opinion has been pronounced by EAC of ICAI against a reference made by another entity and
payment from such beneficiaries. In addition, reconciliation with beneficiaries and other customers is generally opined that miscellaneous scrap items i.e., other than process scrap, should not form part of inventory.
done on quarterly basis. So far as trade/other payables and loans and advances are concerned, the balance Accordingly, the accounting of scrap has been modified and the amount of scrap appearing in the inventory as
confirmation letters/emails with the negative assertion as referred in the Standard on Auditing (SA) 505 (Revised) at 1 April 2023 amounting to ` 27.55 crore has been charged off during the year.
‘External Confirmations’, were sent to the parties. Some of such balances are subject to confirmation/reconciliation.
ii) Certain other changes have also been made in the material accounting policies for improved disclosures. The
Adjustments, if any will be accounted for on confirmation/reconciliation of the same, which in the opinion of the
impact on the financial statements due to these changes is not material.
management will not have a material impact.
b) Refer Note 54 for disclosures relating to restatement.
b) In the opinion of the management, the value of assets, other than property, plant and equipment and non-current
investments, on realisation in the ordinary course of business, will not be less than the value at which these are
stated in the Balance Sheet.
378 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 379
53 Disclosure as per Ind AS 2 ‘Inventories’ Reconciliation of Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended 31 March 2023
````` Crore
a) Amount of inventories consumed and recognized as expense during the year is as under:
Particulars Note As previously Adjustments As restated
````` Crore
reported
Particulars For the year For the year
Trade receivables (a) (2,450.76) (1,287.19) (3,737.95)
ended ended
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 Loans, other financial assets and other assets (c) (5,049.74) 37.93 (5,011.81)
Fuel cost (Note 42) - Domestic 81,465.57 72,228.16 Trade payables, provisions, Other financial liabilities and (b) 3,875.07 - 3,875.07
- Imported 12,571.92 24,623.34 Other liabilities
Others (included in Note 46 - Other expenses) - Domestic 2,030.78 1,780.23 Others 39,024.00 - 39,024.00
- Imported 85.97 77.07 Net cash flow from/(used in) operating activities (a)+(c) 35,398.57 (1,249.26) 34,149.31
Total 96,154.24 98,708.80 Net cash flow from/(used in) investing activities (c) (14,062.76) (37.93) (14,100.69)
Net cash flow from/(used in) financing activities (a) (21,450.16) 1,287.19 (20,162.97)
b) Total inventories have been pledged as security against consortium working capital borrowings. The outstanding
fund based borrowings as at 31 March 2024 is ````` Nil (31 March 2023: ` Nil). Net increase/ (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents during the year (114.35) (0.00) (114.35)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 117.48 - 117.48
54. Disclosure as per Ind AS 8 - ‘Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors’
Cash and cash equivalent at the end of the year 3.13 (0.00) 3.13
(A) Restatement for the year ended 31 March 2023 and as at 1 April 2022
Notes:
In accordance with Ind AS 8 ‘Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors’ and Ind AS 1 ‘ Presentation
of Financial Statements’, the Company has retrospectively restated its Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2023 and 1 April (a) Discounting of bills of beneficiaries
2022 (beginning of the preceding period) and Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended 31 March 2023 for the reasons The Company has been presenting the trade receivables net of amount discounted and disclosing the amount of
as stated in the notes below. There are no changes in the Statement of Profit and Loss for the year ended 31 March 2023 bills discounted under contingent liabilities for possibility of recourse to the company in the Financial Statements.
due to the restatement. Reconciliation of financial statement line items which are retrospectively restated are as under: During the year, an opinion has been pronounced by Expert Advisory Committee (EAC) of Institute of Chartered
Reconciliation of restated items of Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2023 and 1 April 2022 Accountants of India (ICAI) stating that the bills discounted having recourse to the Company should not be adjusted
````` Crore from the trade receivables, instead should be disclosed under borrowings - Current financial liabilities. The Company
has evaluated implementation of the EAC opinion thus presenting the amount realised through bills discounting
Particulars 31 March 2023 1 April 2022
under financial liability as current borrowings instead of netting off from trade receivables.Accordingly, the Company
Note As previously Adjustments As restated As previously Adjustments As restated has changed the accounting and presentation of the amount received from bills discounting as current borrowings
reported reported from the financial year 2023-24 and corresponding changes in the previous periods have also been carried out. The
Trade receivables-Current (a) 24,741.45 1,287.19 26,028.64 24,747.45 8,202.03 32,949.48 changes in the presentation do not have any impact on the Statement of Profit and Loss as well as Statement of
financial assets Changes in Equity of the Company for all the reported periods.
Other Assets 3,57,645.81 - 3,57,645.81 3,46,392.99 - 3,46,392.99 (b) Presentation of Contractual obligations
Total Assets 3,82,387.26 1,287.19 3,83,674.45 3,71,140.44 8,202.03 3,79,342.47 The Company was including contractual obligations such as security deposit along with the dues of the vendors
Borrowings-Current (a) 28,681.96 1,287.19 29,969.15 24,472.43 8,202.03 32,674.46 under trade payables. A review of the same was carried out considering the Guidance Note on Schedule III to the
financial liabilities Companies Act,2013 and Industry practice and changed the presentation of contractual obligations from ‘Trade
Trade payables - (b) 86.52 (86.52) - 84.62 (84.62) - payable’ to ‘Other financial liabilities’ for the year 2023-24 and corresponding changes in the previous periods have
Non current liabilities also been carried out. The changes in the presentation do not have any impact on the Statement of Profit and Loss
as well as Statement of Changes in Equity of the Company for all the reported periods.
Other financial (b) 419.29 86.52 505.81 815.47 84.62 900.09
liability - Non current (c) Certain reclassifications have been made to the comparative period’s Statement of cash flows with the current
year’s Statement of cash flows for improved disclosure.
Trade payables- (b) 12,007.34 (2,409.24) 9,598.10 9,734.35 (1,213.27) 8,521.08
Current liabilities (B) Deferred Tax relate to assets and liabilities arising from a Single Transaction
Other financial (b) 21,224.80 2,409.24 23,634.04 23,169.61 1,213.27 24,382.88
The Company has adopted the amendment to Ind AS 12 – “Income Taxes” as notified by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs
liabilities - Current
vide notification dated 31 March 2023 relating to “Deferred tax related to assets and liabilities arising from a single
Total equity 1,38,889.88 - 1,38,889.88 1,28,667.52 - 1,28,667.52 transaction” from 1 April 2023. The amendment narrows the scope of the initial recognition exemption to exclude
Other Liabilities 1,81,077.47 - 1,81,077.47 1,84,196.44 - 1,84,196.44 transactions that give rise to equal and offsetting differences e.g. leases and decommissioning liabilities. As a result, the
Company has recognised associated deferred tax liability of ` 240.95 crore, deferred tax asset of ` 317.99 crore and
Total Equity and Liabilities 3,82,387.26 1,287.19 3,83,674.45 3,71,140.44 8,202.03 3,79,342.47
regulatory deferral account balance of ` 74.32 crore on right of use assets and leases liabilities during the year, and the
corresponding impact of ` 2.72 crore, being the net of deferred tax income of ` 77.04 crore and regulatory deferral
account (expense) of ` 74.32 crore, has been recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss for the year, considering
materiality.
380 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 381
(C) Material accounting policy information iii) Reconciliation of tax expense and the accounting profit multiplied by India’s domestic tax rate ````` Crore
The Company adopted the amendment to Ind AS 1 – “Presentation of Financial Statements” as notified by Ministry of Particulars For the year ended
Corporate Affairs vide notification dated 31 March 2023 relating to “ Disclosure of accounting policy information” from
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
1 April 2023. Although the amendment did not result in any changes in the accounting policies themselves, they impacted
Profit before tax including movement in regulatory deferral account 24,919.55 23,350.86
the accounting policy information disclosed in the financial statements. The amendments require the disclosure of
balances
‘material’ rather than ‘significant’ accounting policies. The amendments also provide guidance on the application of
materiality to disclosure of accounting policies, assisting entities to provide useful, entity-specific accounting policy Tax using the Company’s domestic tax rate of 34.944 % 8,707.89 8,159.72
information that users need to understand other information in the financial statements. (31 March 2023 - 34.944%)
Tax effect of:
(D) Standards issued but not yet effective
Non-deductible tax expenses (19.45) 88.55
Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) notifies new standards or amendments to the existing standards under Companies
Deferred tax expenses 2,658.30 1,779.36
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, from time to time. MCA has not notified any new standards or amendments to the
Previous year tax liability (152.63) 206.35
existing standards which are effective from 1 April 2024.
Minimum alternate tax adjustments (4,353.95) (4,079.85)
Total tax expense recognized in the statement of profit and loss 6,840.16 6,154.13
55. Income taxes related disclosures
(I) Disclosure as per Ind AS 12 ‘Income taxes’ (b) Tax losses carried forward ````` Crore
(a) Income tax expense Particulars 31 March Expiry 31 March Expiry
i) Income tax recognised in the statement of profit and loss 2024 date 2023 date
````` Crore Long-term capital loss for which no deferred tax asset 2,105.19 31-03-2029 2,105.19 31-03-2029
Particulars For the year ended has been recognised due to uncertainty involved
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 (c) Refer Note 54(B) relating to adjustment to deferred tax assets and liabilities relating to ROU assets / lease liabilities.
Current tax expense
56. Disclosure as per Ind AS 19 ‘Employee benefits’
Current year 4,094.36 4,293.56
(i) Defined contribution plans:
Taxes for earlier years (152.63) 206.35
Pension
Pertaining to regulatory deferral account balances (A) 240.13 (125.14)
The defined contribution pension scheme of the Company for its employees which is effective from 1 January 2007, is
Total current tax expense (B) 4,181.86 4,374.77
administered through a separate trust. The obligation of the Company is to contribute to the trust to the extent of
Deferred tax expense
amount not exceeding 30% of basic pay and dearness allowance less employer’s contribution towards provident fund,
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 4,093.09 4,532.62 gratuity, post retirement medical facility (PRMF) or any other retirement benefits. The Company’s contribution towards
Less: MAT credit entitlement 1,434.79 2,753.26 pension is made to National Pension System Trust (NPS) for the employees opted for the scheme. An amount of ````` 281.93
crore (31 March 2023: ` 273.29 crore) for the year is recognized as expense towards contributions to the defined
Total deferred tax expense (C) 2,658.30 1,779.36
contribution pension scheme of the Company/NPS for the year and charged to the statement of profit and loss.
Income tax expense (D=B+C-A) 6,600.03 6,279.27
(ii) Defined benefit plans:
Pertaining to regulatory deferral account balances 240.13 (125.14)
Defined benefit plans of the Company are administered by separate funds which are legally separated from the Company.
Total tax expense including tax on movement in regulatory deferral 6,840.16 6,154.13
The management of funds is governed by their respective board of the trustees who are responsible for administration
account balances
of the plan as per the provisions of the Trust deed and statutory provisions, as applicable. The board of the trustees are
required by law to act in best interests of the plan participants and are responsible for setting certain policies (such as
ii) Income tax recognised in other comprehensive income
investments decisions, contribution schedules, claim settlement) of the funds.
Particulars For the year ended A. Provident fund
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
The Company pays fixed contribution to provident fund at predetermined rates to a separate trust, which invests the
Before tax Tax Net Before tax Tax Net funds in permitted securities. The Company has an obligation to ensure minimum rate of return to the members as
expense/ of tax expense/ of tax specified by GOI. Accordingly, the Company has obtained report of the actuary, based on which overall interest earnings
(benefit) (benefit) and cumulative surplus is more than the statutory interest payment requirement for all the periods presented. Further,
contribution to employees pension scheme is paid to the appropriate authorities.
- Net actuarial losses on defined benefit plans (128.00) (22.36) (105.64) (96.09) (16.79) (79.30)
Based on the actuarial valuation obtained in this respect, the following table sets out the status of the provident fund
- Net gains/(losses) on fair value of equity 120.90 - 120.90 3.60 - 3.60
plan as at balance sheet date:
instruments
````` Crore
(7.10) (22.36) 15.26 (92.49) (16.79) (75.70)
Particulars As at As at
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Net defined benefit (asset)/liability - Current (59.07) (56.88)
382 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 383
Movement in net defined benefit (asset)/liability ````` Crore b) The Company has pension schemes at two of its stations in respect of employees taken over from erstwhile state
government power utilities. These pension schemes are unfunded. The liability for the pension schemes is recognised
Particulars Defined benefit Fair value of Net defined benefit
on the basis of actuarial valuation.
obligation plan assets (asset) liability
Based on the actuarial valuation obtained in this respect, the following table sets out the status of the gratuity and
For the year ended For the year ended For the year ended
pension plan and the amounts recognised in the Company’s financial statements as at balance sheet date:
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March
2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 Net defined benefit (asset)/liability : ````` Crore
Opening balance 11,711.37 11,134.77 11,768.25 11,193.16 (56.88) (58.39) Particulars As at As at
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Current service cost recognised in 335.46 326.73 - - 335.46 326.73
statement of profit and loss Gratuity (funded) 93.30 (23.18)
Interest cost/(income) 928.31 890.85 (928.31) (890.85) - - Gratuity (non-funded) - -
Total 1,263.77 1,217.58 (928.31) (890.85) 335.46 326.73 Pension (non-funded) 540.02 532.75
Remeasurement loss (gain):
Total 633.32 509.57
Actuarial loss (gain) arising from:
Break-up
Demographic assumptions - - - - - -
Non-current 502.95 498.02
Financial assumptions 1.13 (0.79) - - 1.13 (0.79)
Current 130.37 11.55
Experience adjustment 1.96 3.74 - - 1.96 3.74
Return on plan assets excluding - - 18.93 16.74 18.93 16.74 Movement in net defined benefit (asset)/liability ````` Crore
interest income Particulars Defined benefit Fair value of Net defined benefit
Total 3.09 2.95 18.93 16.74 22.02 19.69 obligation plan assets (asset) liability
Other For the year ended For the year ended For the year ended
Contribution by participants 638.70 676.37 638.70 676.37 - - 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March
Contribution by employer - - 359.67 344.91 (359.67) (344.91) 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
Benefits paid 1,594.13 1,320.30 1,594.13 1,320.30 - - Opening balance 2,482.43 2,609.16 1,972.86 1,970.63 509.57 638.53
Closing balance 12,022.80 11,711.37 12,081.87 11,768.25 (59.07) (56.88) Included in profit or loss for the year:
Current service cost 99.00 97.55 - - 99.00 97.55
Pursuant to paragraph 57 of Ind AS 19, accounting by an entity for defined benefit plans, inter-alia, involves determining
Past service cost 85.68 - - - 85.68 -
the amount of the net defined benefit liability (asset) which shall be adjusted for any effect of limiting a net defined
benefit asset to the asset ceiling prescribed in paragraph 64. As per Para 64 of Ind AS 19, in case of surplus in a defined Interest cost (income) 181.81 182.61 (142.38) (143.37) 39.43 39.24
benefit plan, an entity shall measure the net defined benefit asset at the lower of actual surplus or the value of the Total amount recognised in profit or loss for 366.49 280.16 (142.38) (143.37) 224.11 136.79
assets ceiling determined using the discount rate. The asset ceiling is the present value of any economic benefits available the year
in the form of refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan. Further, paragraph 65 provides
Included in other comprehensive income:
that a net defined benefit asset may arise where a defined benefit plan has been overfunded or where actuarial gains
Remeasurement loss (gain):
have arisen.
Actuarial loss (gain) arising from:
As per the provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952, the Company has no
Demographic assumptions - - - - - -
right to the benefits either in the form of refund from the plan or lower future contribution to the plan towards the net
surplus of ````` 59.07 crore (31 March 2023: ` 56.88 crore) determined through actuarial valuation. Accordingly, Company Financial assumptions 45.67 (78.32) - - 45.67 (78.32)
has not recognised the surplus as an asset, and the remeasurement loss /gains in ‘Other Comprehensive Income’, as Experience adjustment (113.15) (41.38) - - (113.15) (41.38)
these pertain to the Provident Fund Trust and not to the Company. Return on plan assets excluding
interest income - - (15.35) (30.39) (15.35) (30.39)
As per the provisions of Employee’s Provident Funds Scheme 1952, the employer shall be liable to make good the loss to
the Trust in the event of any loss as a result of any fraud, defalcation, wrong investment decisions etc. to the Trust. Total amount recognised in other (67.48) (119.70) (15.35) (30.39) (82.83) (150.09)
Keeping in view the above, a cumulative provision of ````` Nil (31 March 2023: ````` 12.81 crore) has been recognized in the comprehensive income
Statement of Profit and Loss, towards such loss to the trust. Out of the above an amount of (-) ````` 5.64 crore (31 March 2023: ` (6.44 crore)) has been transferred to expenditure
during construction period / development of coal mines.
B. Gratuity and pension
Other
a) The Company has a defined benefit gratuity plan. Every employee who has rendered continuous service of five years or
more is entitled to gratuity at 15 days salary (15/26 X last drawn basic salary plus dearness allowance) for each completed Contribution by employer - - (23.18) 77.59 23.18 (77.59)
year of service subject to a maximum of ````` 0.20 crore on superannuation, resignation, termination, disablement or on Benefits paid 276.24 287.19 235.53 249.12 40.71 38.07
death, considering the provisions of the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972, as amended. The gratuity scheme is funded by Closing balance 2,505.20 2,482.43 1,871.88 1,972.86 633.32 509.57
the Company and is managed by separate trust. The liability for gratuity scheme is recognised on the basis of actuarial
Out of the above net liability, an amount of ````` 91.83 crore (31 March 2023: ` Nil) has been adjusted with the amount
valuation.
recoverable from the trust.
384 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 385
C. Post-Retirement Medical Facility (PRMF) D. Other retirement benefit plans
The Company has Post-Retirement Medical Facility (PRMF), under which the retired employees and their spouses are Other retirement benefit plans include baggage allowance for settlement at home town for employees and dependents
provided medical facilities in the Company hospitals/empanelled hospitals. They can also avail treatment as out-patient and farewell gift to the superannuating employees. The scheme above is unfunded and liability for the same is recognised
subject to a ceiling fixed by the Company. The liability for the same is recognised annually on the basis of actuarial on the basis of actuarial valuation.
valuation. A trust has been constituted for its employees superannuated on or after 1 January 2007, for the sole purpose ````` Crore
of providing post retirement medical facility to them.
Particulars As at As at
Based on the actuarial valuation obtained in this respect, the following table sets out the status of the PRMF and the 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
amounts recognised in the Company’s financial statements as at balance sheet date: Net defined benefit (asset)/liability (non-funded) : 198.97 201.17
````` Crore
Non-current 173.86 174.17
Particulars As at As at
Current 25.11 27.00
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Net defined benefit (asset)/liability - Current (funded) 267.57 278.43 Movement in net defined benefit (asset)/liability ````` Crore
Net defined benefit (asset)/liability - Current (unfunded) - - Particulars Defined benefit obligation
As at As at
Movement in net defined benefit (asset)/liability ````` Crore
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Particulars Defined benefit Fair value of Net defined benefit
Opening balance 201.17 206.53
obligation plan assets (asset) liability
Included in profit or loss:
For the year ended For the year ended For the year ended
Current service cost 10.72 9.91
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March
2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 Past service cost -
Opening balance 2,742.68 2,415.95 2,464.25 2,237.32 278.43 178.63 Interest cost (income) 14.89 14.70
Included in profit or loss: Total amount recognised in profit or loss 25.61 24.61
Current service cost 43.06 43.86 - - 43.06 43.86 Included in other comprehensive income:
Past service cost - - - - - - Remeasurement loss (gain):
Interest cost (income) 202.96 169.11 (202.96) (169.11) - - Actuarial loss (gain) arising from:
Total amount recognised in profit or loss 246.02 212.97 (202.96) (169.11) 43.06 43.86
Demographic assumptions -
Included in other comprehensive income:
Financial assumptions 4.55 (6.64)
Remeasurement loss (gain):
Experience adjustment (13.93) (5.17)
Actuarial loss (gain) arising from:
Return on plan assets excluding interest income -
Demographic assumptions - - - - - -
Total amount recognised in other comprehensive income (9.38) (11.81)
Financial assumptions 89.54 (106.06) - - 89.54 (106.06)
Other
Experience adjustment 156.41 383.56 - - 156.41 383.56
Contributions paid by the employer -
Return on plan assets excluding - - (27.27) (27.87) (27.27) (27.87)
Benefits paid 18.43 18.16
interest income
Closing balance 198.97 201.17
Total amount recognised in other 245.95 277.50 (27.27) (27.87) 218.68 249.63
comprehensive income
Out of the above an amount of ````` 4.12 crore (31 March 2023: ` 6.14 crore) has been transferred to expenditure during
construction period / development of coal mines.
Other
Contribution by participants - - 11.67 15.15 (11.67) (15.15)
Contribution by employer - - 260.93 178.54 (260.93) (178.54)
Benefits paid 183.41 163.74 183.41 163.74 - -
Closing balance 3,051.24 2,742.68 2,783.67 2,464.25 267.57 278.43
Out of the above net liability, an amount of ````` 267.57crore (31 March 2023: ` 220.65 crore) has been adjusted with the
amount recoverable from the trust.
386 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 387
E. Plan assets The sensitivity analysis above have been determined based on a method that extrapolates the impact on defined benefit
Plan assets comprise the following: ````` Crore obligation as a result of reasonable changes in key assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period. This analysis
may not be representative of the actual change in the defined benefit obligations as it is unlikely that the change in
Particulars As at 31 March 2024 As at 31 March 2023
assumptions would occur in isolation of one another as some of the assumptions may be correlated.
Quoted Unquoted Total Quoted Unquoted Total
G. Risk exposure
State government securities 7,101.97 - 7,101.97 6,832.81 - 6,832.81
Through its defined benefit plans, the Company is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which are
Central government securities 1,511.18 - 1,511.18 1,647.90 - 1,647.90
detailed below:
Corporate bonds, term deposits and 3,986.08 56.20 4,042.28 3,992.01 47.93 4,039.94
a) Asset volatility
bank balance
Money market instruments/ 45.33 - 45.33 - 10.62 10.62 The plan liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to government bond yields; if plan assets
liquid mutual fund//REITs/InvITs underperform this yield, this will create a deficit. Most of the plan asset investments are in fixed income securities
with high grades and in government securities. These are subject to interest rate risk and the fund manages interest
Equity and equity linked investments 313.08 - 313.08 184.09 - 184.09
rate risk with derivatives to minimise risk to an acceptable level. A portion of the funds are invested in equity
Investments with insurance companies - 3,849.50 3,849.50 - 3,517.41 3,517.41
securities and in alternative investments which have low correlation with equity securities. The Company has a risk
Total (excluding accrued interest) 12,957.64 3,905.70 16,863.34 12,656.81 3,575.96 16,232.77 management strategy where the aggregate amount of risk exposure on a portfolio level is maintained at a fixed
range. Any deviations from the range are corrected by rebalancing the portfolio. The Company intends to maintain
As at 31 March 2024, an amount of ````` Nil (31 March 2023: ` 70.00 crore) is included in the value of plan assets in respect
the above investment mix in the continuing years.
of the reporting enterprise’s own financial instruments (Corporate bonds).
b) Changes in discount rate
Actual return on plan assets is ````` 1,297.34 crore (31 March 2023: ` 1,244.85 crore).
A decrease in discount rate will increase plan liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the
F. Defined benefit obligations value of the plans’ assets holdings.
i. Actuarial assumptions
c) Inflation risks
The following were the principal actuarial assumptions at the reporting date: ````` Crore
In the pension plans, the pension payments are not linked to inflation, so this is a less material risk.
Particulars As at As at
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 d) Life expectancy
Discount rate 7.10% 7.40% The pension plan obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will
result in an increase in the plans’ liabilities. This is particularly significant where inflationary increases result in
Expected return on plan assets
higher sensitivity to changes in life expectancy.
Gratuity 7.10% 7.40%
The Company ensures that the investment positions are managed within an asset-liability matching (ALM) framework
Pension 7.10% 7.40%
that has been developed to achieve long-term investments that are in line with the obligations under the employee
PRMF 7.10% 7.40% benefit plans. Within this framework, the Company’s ALM objective is to match assets to the pension obligations by
Annual increase in costs 6.50% 6.50% investing in long-term fixed interest securities with maturities that match the benefit payments as they fall due and
in the appropriate currency.
Salary escalation rate 6.50% 6.50%
The Company actively monitors how the duration and the expected yield of the investments are matching the
The estimates of future salary increases considered in actuarial valuation, take account of inflation, seniority, promotion
expected cash outflows arising from the employee benefit obligations. The Company has not changed the processes
and other relevant factors, such as supply and demand in the employment market. Further, the expected return on plan
used to manage its risks from previous periods. The Company uses derivatives to manage some of its risk. Investments
assets is determined considering several applicable factors mainly the composition of plan assets held, assessed risk of
are well diversified, such that the failure of any single investment would not have a material impact on the overall
asset management and historical returns from plan assets.
level of assets.
ii. Sensitivity analysis
A large portion of assets consist of government and corporate bonds. The plan asset mix is in compliance with the
Reasonably possible changes at the reporting date to one of the relevant actuarial assumptions, holding other assumptions requirements of the respective local regulations.
constant, would have affected the defined benefit obligation by the amounts shown below.
````` Crore
Particulars As at 31 March 2024 As at 31 March 2023
Increase Decrease Increase Decrease
Discount rate (0.5% movement) (220.22) 234.05 (197.68) 209.18
Annual increase in costs (0.5% movement) 121.84 (120.21) 106.35 (103.83)
Salary escalation rate (0.5% movement) 107.05 (100.62) 99.56 (93.90)
Although the analysis does not take account of the full distribution of cash flows expected under the plan, it does
provide an approximation of the sensitivity of the assumptions shown.
388 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 389
H. Expected maturity analysis of the defined benefit plans in future years 59 Disclosure as per Ind AS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’
````` Crore
a) List of related parties:
Particulars Less than Between Between Over Total
i) Subsidiary companies:
1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years
1. NTPC Vidyut Vyapar Nigam Ltd.
31 March 2024
2. NTPC Electric Supply Company Ltd.
Gratuity and pension 260.31 254.48 529.34 1,461.07 2,505.20
3. Bhartiya Rail Bijlee Company Ltd.
Post-retirement medical facility (PRMF) 216.16 231.13 831.35 1,772.60 3,051.24
4. Patratu Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Ltd.
Provident fund 2,728.51 1,143.64 2,059.64 6,091.01 12,022.80
5. North Eastern Electric Power Corporation Ltd. (NEEPCO)
Other post-employment benefit plans 25.11 22.14 43.08 108.64 198.97
Total 3,230.09 1,651.39 3,463.41 9,433.32 17,778.21 6. THDC India Ltd. (THDCIL)
31 March 2023 7. NTPC Mining Ltd.
Gratuity and pension 289.51 248.74 543.21 1,400.97 2,482.43 8. NTPC EDMC Waste Solutions Private Ltd.
Post-retirement medical facility (PRMF) 178.88 187.88 651.37 1,724.55 2,742.68 9. Ratnagiri Gas & Power Private Ltd.
Provident fund 2,522.95 1,152.54 2,382.70 5,653.18 11,711.37 10. NTPC Green Energy Limited (W.e.f 7 April 2022)
Other post-employment benefit plans 27.01 22.63 47.91 103.62 201.17 Subsidiary company of NTPC Green Energy Limited
Total 3,018.35 1,611.79 3,625.19 8,882.32 17,137.65 1. NTPC Renewable Energy Ltd. (subsidiary of NTPC Limited upto 28 February 2023)
Expected contributions to post-employment benefit plans for the year ending 31 March 2025 are ````` 552.28 crore. 2. Green Valley Renewable Energy Limited (Incorporated on 25 August 2022)
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit plan obligation at the end of the reporting period is 16.65 years Subsidiary company of THDCIL
(31 March 2023: 16.01 years). 1. TUSCO Limited
(iii) Other long term employee benefit plans 2. TREDCO Rajasthan Limited
3. THDCIL-UJVNL Energy Company Limited (Incorporated on 01 December 2023)
A. Leave
ii) Joint ventures companies:
The Company provides for earned leave benefit (including compensated absences) and half-pay leave to the
employees of the Company which accrue annually at 30 days and 20 days respectively. Earned leave (EL) is en- 1. Utility Powertech Ltd.
cashable while in service. Half-pay leaves (HPL) are en-cashable only on separation beyond the age of 50 years up to 2. NTPC-GE Power Services Private Ltd.
the maximum of 300 days. However, total number of leave (i.e. EL & HPL combined) that can be encashed on
3. NTPC-SAIL Power Company Ltd.
superannuation shall be restricted to 300 days and no commutation of half-pay leave shall be permissible. The
scheme is unfunded and liability for the same is recognised on the basis of actuarial valuation. During the year, 4. NTPC Tamil Nadu Energy Company Ltd.
provision amounting to ` 121.71 crore has been made on the basis of actuarial valuation at the year end and 5. Aravali Power Company Private Ltd.
debited to statement of profit and loss (31 March 2023: ` 71.11 crore)
6. Meja Urja Nigam Private Ltd.
B. Other employee benefits
7. NTPC BHEL Power Projects Private Ltd.
Provision for long service award and family economic rehabilitation scheme amounting to ` 3.67 crore (31 March 8. National High Power Test Laboratory Private Ltd.
2023: ` (6.72) crore) for the year have been made on the basis of actuarial valuation at the year end and (credited)/
9. Transformers and Electricals Kerala Ltd.
debited to the statement of profit and loss.
10. Energy Efficiency Services Ltd.
57 Disclosure as per Ind AS 21 ‘The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates’ 11. CIL NTPC Urja Private Ltd.
The amount of exchange differences (net) debited to the statement of profit and loss, net of movement in regulatory 12. Anushakti Vidhyut Nigam Ltd.
deferral account balances, is ````` 6.10 crore (31 March 2023: debited to Statement of profit and loss ` 35.76 crore).
13. Hindustan Urvarak & Rasayan Ltd.
14. Jhabua Power Limited.
58 Disclosure as per Ind AS 23 ‘Borrowing Costs’
15. Trincomalee Power Company Ltd.
Borrowing costs capitalised during the year is ````` 2,178.16 crore (31 March 2023: ` 2,785.95 crore).
16. Bangladesh-India Friendship Power Company Private Ltd.
Joint venture company of NEEPCO
1. KSK Dibbin Hydro Power Private Ltd.
Joint venture company of NTPC Green Energy Limited
1. Indian Oil NTPC Green Energy Limited (Incorporated on 2 June 2023)
390 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 391
Subsidiary companies of Energy Efficiency Services Ltd., a Joint venture of the Company those with other entities that are not Government-related generally through a transparent price discovery process
against open tenders. In few cases of procurement of spares/services from Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM)
1. EESL EnergyPro Assets Ltd.
for proprietary items/or on single tender basis are resorted to due to urgency, compatibility and similar reasons
2. EESL Energy Solutions LLC
which are also carried out through a process of negotiation with prices benchmarked against available price data of
3. Convergence Energy Services Ltd. such items.
iii) Key Management Personnel (KMP): vi) Others:
Whole Time Directors 1. NTPC Education and Research Society
Mr. Gurdeep Singh Chairman and Managing Director 2. NTPC Foundation
Mr. Jaikumar Srinivasan Director (Finance) W.e.f. 21 July 2022
b) Transactions with the related parties are as follows:
Mr. A.K.Gautam Director (Finance) Upto 31 May 2022 ````` Crore
Mr. Dillip Kumar Patel Director (HR) Particulars Subsidiary Companies Joint venture Companies
Mr Ramesh Babu V. Director (Operations) Upto 31 January 2024 For the year ended For the year ended
Mr. Chandan Kumar Mondol Director (Commercial) Upto 31 January 2023 31 March 2024 31 March 2023 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Mr. Ujjwal Kanti Bhattacharya Director (Projects) Upto 30 November 2023 i) Sales/purchase of goods and services
Mr. Shivam Srivastav Director (Fuel) W.e.f. 30 April 2023 - Contracts for works/services for 22.05 2.66 593.15 1,711.50
services received by the Company
Mr. K Shanmugha Sundaram Director (Projects) W.e.f. 1 December 2023
- Contracts for works/services for 54.00 48.00 25.66 24.77
Mr. Ravindra Kumar Director (Operations) W.e.f. 26 February 2024
services provided by the Company
Independent Directors
- Sale/purchase of goods 2,970.53 2,567.08 1.73 16.65
Mr. Jitendra Jayantilal Tanna Non-executive Director
ii) Sales/purchase of assets 0.08 2.56 37.43 2.90
Mr. Vivek Gupta Non-executive Director
iii) Secondment of employees 48.00 39.20 57.40 55.59
Mr. Vidyadhar Vaishampayan Non-executive Director
iv) Dividend received 904.20 1,050.25 725.52 1,285.33
Ms. Sangitha Varier Non-executive Director
v) Equity contributions made 1,580.98 5,582.90 944.86 1,605.52
Government Nominee Directors
vi) Equity transferred - 1,094.46 - -
Mr. Ashish Upadhyaya Non-executive Director Upto 31 December 2023
vii) Loans granted 1,064.82 100.00 - -
Mr. Piyush Singh Non-executive Director W.e.f 31 May 2022
viii) Investments in Debentures - - - 600.00
Mr. Vivek Kumar Dewangan Non-executive Director Upto 30 May 2022
ix) Investments redeemed - - 50.00 25.00
Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary
x) Interest on loan 94.29 81.45 2.52 -
Ms. Renu Narang Chief Financial Officer W.e.f. 01 June 2022 upto
xi) Income on Investments (Debentures) - - 47.26 28.79
20 July 2022
xii) Loans repaid 1,417.92 153.10 - -
Ms. Ritu Arora Company Secretary W.e.f. 29 January 2024
xiii) Guarantees received - - 2.36 5.66
Mr. Arun Kumar Company Secretary W.e.f. 29 October 2022 upto
28 January 2024 xiv) Income on investment property 5.93 0.19 - -
Ms. Nandini Sarkar Company Secretary Upto 30 September 2022 xv) Transfer of cost of land / RE assets 1,006.82 12,010.55 - -
(Refer Note (a) below)
iv) Post employment benefit plans:
xvi) Interest income- Transfer of assets 16.25 49.35 - -
1. NTPC Limited Employees Provident Fund
2. NTPC Employees Gratuity Fund Note:
3. NTPC Post Retirement Employees Medical Benefit Fund (a) Pursuant to a business transfer agreement entered with NGEL, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, fifteen
renewable energy (RE) assets of the Company were transferred to NGEL as at 28 February 2023 at book value.
4. NTPC Limited Defined Contribution Pension Trust
During the year, the cost incurred by the Company for 1200 acres of lease hold land at Pudimadakka, Andhra Pradesh,
v) Entities under the control of the same government:
including the capital advance (Note-12) of ` 713.32 crore accounted in the earlier years, was transferred to NGEL for
The Company is a Central Public Sector Undertaking (CPSU) controlled by Central Government by holding 51.10% of establishing green hydrogen projects.
paid up share capital (31 March 2023- 51.10%) and is under Ministry of Power. The Company has transactions with
other Government related entities, which significantly includes but not limited to purchase of fuel (coal, gas)/oil
products, purchase of equipment, spares, receipt of erection, maintenance and other services, rendering consultancy
and other services. Transactions with these parties are carried out at market terms and on terms comparable to
392 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 393
(b) Refer Note 75(C) (b) and (c) for other Commitments with subsidiaries and joint venture companies. d) Individually significant transactions
````` Crore ````` Crore
Particulars For the year For the year Particulars Nature of relationship For the year For the year
ended ended ended ended
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Transactions with post employment benefit plans Contracts for works/services for services
- Contributions made during the year 787.02 855.35 received by the Company
Compensation to Key management personnel Utility Powertech Ltd. Joint Venture Company 482.45 1,662.35
- Short term employee benefits 6.26 6.96 NTPC-Tamil Nadu Energy Company Ltd. Joint Venture Company 85.34 -
- Post employment benefits 0.51 0.54 NTPC BHEL Power Projects Private Ltd. Joint Venture Company 21.31 24.65
- Other long term benefits 0.42 0.34 NTPC-GE Power Services Private Ltd. Joint Venture Company 2.35 22.17
- Termination benefits 1.34 1.44 Contracts for works/services for services
provided by the Company
- Sitting fee 0.79 0.71
Patratu Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Ltd. Subsidiary Company 27.52 22.89
Total compensation to key management personnel 9.32 9.99
NTPC Vidyut Vyapar Nigam Ltd. Subsidiary Company 3.07 3.44
````` Crore
THDC India Ltd. Subsidiary Company 9.34 17.73
Particulars For the year For the year
Bhartiya Rail Bijlee Company Ltd. Subsidiary Company 2.57 3.75
ended ended
NTPC Green Energy Limited Subsidiary Company 10.94 -
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
NTPC SAIL Power Company Ltd Joint Venture Company 3.54 2.65
Transactions with others listed at (a)(vi) above
Utility Powertech Ltd. Joint Venture Company 2.99 4.21
- Contracts for works/services for services received by the Company 30.89 40.43
Meja Urja Nigam Private Limited Joint Venture Company 3.78 3.84
- Contracts for works/services for services provided by the Company - 0.35
Aravali Power Company Private Ltd. Joint Venture Company 3.82 3.71
c) Outstanding balances with related parties are as follows:
NTPC Tamil Nadu Energy Company Ltd. Joint Venture Company 3.69 3.90
````` Crore
Energy Efficiency Services Ltd. Joint Venture Company 5.39 5.63
Particulars As at As at
Sale of goods
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
NTPC Vidyut Vyapar Nigam Ltd. Subsidiary Company 2,591.52 2,566.80
Amount recoverable towards loans from
Purchase of goods
- Subsidiary companies 412.42 765.53
- Joint venture companies - 19.78 Energy Efficiency Services Ltd. Joint Venture Company 0.47 8.59
- Key management personnel 0.08 0.47 NTPC BHEL Power Projects Private Ltd. Joint Venture Company - 7.31
- Others - 0.60 Transformers and Electricals Kerala Ltd. Joint Venture Company 0.11 0.18
Amount recoverable other than loans from Sale of assets
- Subsidiary companies 921.02 3,664.36 Bhartiya Rail Bijlee Company Ltd. Subsidiary Company 0.08 2.56
- Joint venture companies 333.16 216.04 NTPC-Tamil Nadu Energy Company Ltd. Joint Venture Company 11.86 -
- Post employment benefit plans 44.17 88.09 NTPC-SAIL Power Company Ltd. Joint Venture Company 1.50 -
- Others 6.67 0.42 Purchase of assets
Others NTPC BHEL Power Projects Private Ltd. Joint Venture Company 19.88 1.98
- Joint venture companies - Non convertible debentures 525.00 575.00
Transformers and Electricals Kerala Ltd. Joint Venture Company 0.28 0.89
Amount payable to
NTPC-GE Power Services Private Ltd. Joint Venture Company 2.02 -
- Joint venture companies 106.87 312.00
Dividend received
- Post employment benefit plans 29.85 78.99
NTPC-SAIL Power Company Ltd. Joint Venture Company 75.00 325.00
- Others 0.43 0.30
Aravali Power Company Private Ltd. Joint Venture Company 375.00 475.00
Guarantee received Outstanding
NTPC-Tamil Nadu Energy Company Ltd. Joint Venture Company 275.21 375.33
- Joint venture companies 327.84 353.95
394 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 395
````` Crore ````` Crore
Particulars Nature of relationship For the year For the year Particulars Nature of relationship For the year For the year
ended ended ended ended
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Utility Powertech Ltd. Joint Venture Company - 10.00 Equity in NTPC Renewable energy Ltd. transferred
Jhabua Power Limited. Joint Venture Company - 100.00 NTPC Green energy Ltd. Subsidiary Company - 1,094.46
NTPC-GE Power Services Private Ltd. Joint Venture Company 0.30 - Income on Investment Property
CIL NTPC Urja Private Ltd. Joint Venture Company 0.01 - NTPC Green Energy Limited Subsidiary Company 5.93 0.19
NTPC Vidyut Vyapar Nigam Ltd. Subsidiary Company 25.50 19.50 Secondment of employees
North Eastern Electric Power Corporation Ltd. Subsidiary Company 250.00 365.00 Patratu Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Ltd. Subsidiary Company 14.03 11.19
NTPC Electric Supply Company Ltd. Subsidiary Company - 35.56 Bhartiya Rail Bijlee Company Ltd. Subsidiary Company 15.80 15.71
Bhartiya Rail Bijlee Company Ltd. Subsidiary Company 277.50 222.00 NTPC Green Energy Limited Subsidiary Company 6.40 0.50
THDC India Ltd. Subsidiary Company 351.20 408.19 NTPC Renewable Energy Ltd. Subsidiary Company of 5.81 6.01
Equity contributions made NTPC Green Energy Ltd.
Patratu Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Ltd. Subsidiary Company 426.93 500.00 Meja Urja Nigam Private Ltd. Joint Venture Company 15.74 16.11
NTPC Mining Ltd. Subsidiary Company 154.05 - NTPC-Tamil Nadu Energy Company Ltd. Joint Venture Company 14.57 14.49
NTPC Green Energy Limited Subsidiary Company 1,000.00 4,719.61 NTPC-SAIL Power Company Ltd. Joint Venture Company 6.88 6.76
NTPC Renewable Energy Ltd. Subsidiary Company - 363.29 Aravali Power Company Private Ltd. Joint Venture Company 10.88 10.24
Energy Efficiency Services Ltd. Joint Venture Company 383.00 - Bangladesh-India Friendship Power Joint Venture Company 5.44 3.49
Company Private Ltd.
Trincomalee Power Company Ltd. Joint Venture Company - 0.44
Transactions with post employment benefit
Meja Urja Nigam Private Ltd. Joint Venture Company 34.44 41.90
plans - Contribution
National High Power Test Laboratory Private Ltd. Joint Venture Company 18.40 -
NTPC Limited Employees Provident Fund Post employment 335.47 326.80
Bangladesh-India Friendship Power Joint Venture Company 161.99 541.64
benefit plans
Company Pvt.Ltd.
NTPC Limited Defined Contribution Post employment 90.68 273.29
NTPC-Tamil Nadu Energy Company Ltd. Joint Venture Company - 30.00
Pension Trust benefit plans
Jhabua Power Limited. Joint Venture Company - 325.00
NTPC Post Retirement Employees Medical Post employment 267.57 278.44
Hindustan Urvarak & Rasayan Ltd. Joint Venture Company 347.03 666.54 benefit plans
Loans granted Benefit Fund
Ratnagiri Gas & Power Private Ltd. Subsidiary Company 1,064.32 100.00 NTPC Employees Gratuity Fund Post employment 93.30 (23.18)
benefit plans
NTPC Mining Ltd. Subsidiary Company 0.50 -
Transactions with others
Investments in Debentures
NTPC Foundation Others 23.73 20.02
Jhabua Power Limited. Joint Venture Company - 600.00
NTPC Education and Research Society Others 2.33 13.41
Transfer of Assets
NTPC School of Business Others 4.83 7.00
NTPC Green Energy Limited* Subsidiary Company 1,006.82 12,010.55
(under NTPC Education and Research Society)
Interest income - Transfer of Assets
Guarantees received
NTPC Green Energy Limited Subsidiary Company 16.25 49.35
Utility Powertech Ltd. Joint Venture Company - 3.00
Interest on Loan
Transformers and Electricals Kerala Ltd. Joint Venture Company 2.36 -
Ratnagiri Gas & Power Private Ltd. Subsidiary Company 94.29 81.45
NTPC-GE Power Services Private Ltd. Joint Venture Company - 2.66
National High Power Test Laboratory Private Ltd. Joint Venture Company 2.52 -
Loans repaid
Income on Investments (Debentures)
Ratnagiri Gas & Power Private Ltd. Subsidiary Company 1,417.42 153.10
Jhabua Power Limited. Joint Venture Company 47.26 28.79
NTPC Mining Ltd. Subsidiary Company 0.50 -
* Includes equity contribution
396 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 397
e) Individually significant balances ````` Crore
````` Crore
Particulars Nature of relationship For the year For the year
Particulars Nature of relationship For the year For the year ended ended
ended ended 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Guarantees received outstanding
Amount recoverable towards loans from
NTPC BHEL Power Projects Private Ltd. Joint Venture Company 264.79 264.79
Ratnagiri Gas & Power Private Ltd. Subsidiary Company 412.42 765.53
NTPC-GE Power Services Private Ltd. Joint Venture Company 33.02 53.96
National High Power Test Laboratory Private Ltd. Joint Venture Company - 19.78
Utility Powertech Ltd. Joint Venture Company 27.67 28.65
Mr. Ujjwal Kanti Bhattacharya Key Management Personnel - 0.05
Transformers and Electricals Kerala Ltd. Joint Venture Company 2.36 6.55
Mr Ramesh Babu V. Key Management Personnel - 0.11
f) Terms and conditions of transactions with the related parties
Mr. K Shanmugha Sundaram Key Management Personnel 0.06 -
Mr. Ravindra Kumar Key Management Personnel 0.02 - i) The Company was assigning jobs on contract basis, for sundry works in plants/stations/offices to M/s Utility
Powertech Ltd. (UPL), a joint venture of the Company till the previous year ended 31 March 2023. UPL inter-alia
Mr. Arun Kumar Key Management Personnel - 0.31
undertakes jobs such as overhauling, repair, refurbishment of various mechanical and electrical equipment of
NTPC Education and Research Society Others - 0.60
power stations pursuant to a Power Station Maintenance Agreement with UPL from time to time. The rates
Amount recoverable other than loans from were fixed on cost plus basis after mutual discussion and after taking into account the prevailing market
NTPC Green Energy Limited Subsidiary Company 88.71 3,207.91 conditions. The transactions reported for the year are in respect of assignments awarded till the year 2022-23
having execution period beyond 31 March 2023.
NTPC Vidyut Vyapar Nigam Ltd. Subsidiary Company 525.34 96.26
ii) Other transactions with related parties are made on normal commercial terms and conditions and at arm length
North Eastern Electric Power Corporation Ltd. Subsidiary Company 0.42 349.89
price.
THDC India Ltd. Subsidiary Company 238.31 3.98
iii) The Company is seconding its personnel to subsidiary and joint venture companies as per the terms and conditions
Bhartiya Rail Bijlee Company Ltd. Subsidiary Company 120.06 (34.65)
agreed between the companies, which are similar to those applicable for secondment of employees to other
Patratu Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Ltd. Subsidiary Company 27.07 35.01
companies and institutions. The cost incurred by the Company towards superannuation and employee benefits
NTPC Mining Ltd. Subsidiary Company (80.92) - are recovered from these companies.
NTPC BHEL Power Projects Private Ltd. Joint Venture Company 109.52 112.37
iv) Loans granted to subsidiaries and joint venture companies are detailed below:
NTPC SAIL Power Company Ltd Joint Venture Company 70.22 75.53
Sl. Name of the Loan granted Rate of Repayment Purpose Year of
Aravali Power Company Private Ltd. Joint Venture Company 107.07 16.71 No. subsidiary (S)/ (Amount in interest schedule grant
Meja Urja Nigam Private Ltd. Joint Venture Company 37.94 9.65 joint venture ````` crore) (p.a.) of loan
(JV) company
NTPC Post Retirement Employees Post employment 44.17 (57.78)
Medical Benefit Fund benefit plans 1 National High 18.40 10% Under the Restructuring Scheme For repayment 2019-20
Power Test (quarterly approved by promoters in a of loans/
NTPC Foundation Others 6.67 0.42
Laboratory rest) meeting held at MOP on 15 contractual
Amount recoverable - others
Private Ltd. September 2022, it was agreed obligations
Jhabua Power Limited - Debentures Joint Venture Company 525.00 575.00 (JV) that all promoters will convert
Amount payable to the loan into equity under the
restructuring plan. Board of
Utility Powertech Ltd. Joint Venture Company 45.29 212.43
Directors of NTPC in its meeting
NTPC-Tamil Nadu Energy Company Ltd. Joint Venture Company 58.32 87.89
held on 11 March 2023 had
NTPC-GE Power Services Private Ltd. Joint Venture Company 1.20 10.15 approved the restructuring scheme
for NHPTL for conversion of loan
NTPC Limited Employees Provident Fund Post employment 0.58 0.89
to equity. Further, pursuant to
benefit plans
agreement entered on 23 April
NTPC Limited Defined Contribution Post employment 27.80 20.32
2024 with the promoters of NHPTL,
Pension Trust benefit plans
the share holding of the company
NTPC Employees Gratuity Fund Post employment 1.47 (88.09) in the Joint venture will be reduced
benefit plans to 12.50%.
NTPC School of Business (under NTPC Others 0.43 -
Education and Research Society)
NTPC Education and Research Society Others - 0.30
398 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 399
v) Consultancy services provided by the Company to subsidiary and joint venture companies are generally on
Sl. Name of the Loan granted Rate of Repayment Purpose Year of
nomination basis at the terms, conditions and principles applicable for consultancy services provided to other
No. subsidiary (S)/ (Amount in interest schedule grant
parties.
joint venture ````` crore) (p.a.) of loan
(JV) company vi) Outstanding balances of subsidiary and joint venture companies at the year-end are unsecured, except in respect
2 Ratnagiri Gas 885.00 10% p.a. (quarterly rest) Loan shall be repaid in 53 quarterly For debt 2020-21 of loan to RGPPL which is secured (Refer Note 9 c) and settlement occurs through banking transaction. These
and Power which will be reviewed instalments as per the loan settlement balances other than loans, investments in debentures and amount recoverable pursuant to business transfer
Pvt Ltd. (S) and mutually decided at agreement starting from with Lenders agreement are interest free. The Company has not recorded any impairment of receivables relating to amounts
the beginning of each 31.03.2021 and Last Instalment owed by related parties. This assessment is undertaken in each financial year through examining the financial
financial year i.e., 1st shall be paid on 31.03.2034. position of the related party and the market in which the related party operates.
April of each year and
vii) Refer Note 62 (b), (c), (d), (e), (f) and (g) in respect of impairment loss on investment in certain subsidiaries and
shall be applicable for
joint venture companies.
the entire financial year.
viii) Refer Note 75 (C) towards restrictions on disposal of investment and commitment towards further investments
570.18 Interest shall be payable Principal Repayment shall start Novation of 2020-21*
in the subsidiary and joint venture companies.
w.e.f. 01.04.2034 or after from FY 2034-35 or after full residual debt
full repayment of Inter- repayment of Inter-Corporate by existing g) Others
Corporate Loan of ` 885 Loan of ` 885 crore whichever lenders in favor
The Company has investment of 1.20 crore equity shares of ` 10 each in PTC India Ltd., as disclosed in Note 8- ‘ Other
crore whichever is earlier is earlier as per mutually decided of NTPC .
investments’ and is one of the promoters of the Company having 4.05% holding. The Company is of the view that
as per mutually agreed Schedule.
provisions of Ind AS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’ are not applicable to the investments made in PTC India Ltd. and
terms & Conditions.
the same has been accounted for as per the provisions of Ind AS 109 ‘Financial Instruments’. During the year, the
400.00 9.5% (SBI 1-year MCLR To be repaid in four instalments For meeting 2022-23 Company has transactions towards receipt of dividend of ````` 9.36 crore (31 March 2023: ` 6.96 crore) and receipt of
+ 100 bps on quarterly of ` 50 crore, ` 100 crore, ` 100 cost of sitting fees for the nominee director amounting to ````` 0.04 crore (31 March 2023: ` 0.10 crore) from PTC India Ltd.
rests as on the date of crore and ` 150 crore). Out of the procurement
drawl of loan) - 11.5% loan granted, ` 314.32 crore of gas
60. Disclosure as per Ind AS 27 ‘Separate financial statements’
w.e.f 01 August 2023 was drawn during the year
2023-24 which has been fully a) Investment in subsidiary companies:*
repaid / adjusted during the year.
Sl. Company name Country of Proportion of ownership
50.00 9.5% (SBI 1-year MCLR Bullet repayment on 30 September For meeting 2023-24
No. incorporation interest
+ 100 bps on quarterly 2023. The loan granted was drawn cost of
As at As at
rests as on the date of fully and has been repaid/adjusted procurement
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
drawl of loan) during the year. of gas
1 NTPC Electric Supply Company Ltd. India 100.00 100.00
250.00 9.55% (SBI 1-year MCLR 90 days from the date of drawl. For meeting 2023-24
+ 100 bps on quarterly The loan granted was drawn fully cost of 2 NTPC Vidyut Vyapar Nigam Ltd. India 100.00 100.00
rests as on the date of and has been repaid / adjusted procurement 3 Bhartiya Rail Bijlee Company Ltd. India 74.00 74.00
drawl of loan) during the year. of gas 4 Patratu Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Ltd. India 74.00 74.00
600.00 9.55% (SBI 1-year MCLR 90 days from the date of drawl. For meeting 2023-24 5 NTPC Mining Ltd. India 100.00 100.00
+ 100 bps on quarterly Outstanding amount as on 31 cost of
6 THDC India Ltd. India 74.496 74.496
rests as on the date of March 2024 is ` 100 crore. procurement
7 North Eastern Electric Power Corporation Ltd. India 100.00 100.00
drawl of loan). 11.55% of gas
for extended period 8 NTPC EDMC Waste Solutions Private Ltd. India 74.00 74.00
700.00 9.65% (SBI 1-year MCLR 90 days from date of drawl. For meeting 2023-24 9 Ratnagiri Gas & Power Private Ltd. India 86.49 86.49
+ 100 bps on quarterly cost of 10 NTPC Green Energy Ltd. (w.e.f.7 April 2022) India 100.00 100.00
rests as on the date of procurement
drawl of loan) of gas
3 NTPC 1.00 9.5% (SBI 1-year MCLR 90 days from date of drawl. For participating 2023-24
Mining + 100 bps on quarterly Out of the loan granted, ` 0.50 in coal block
limited rests as on the date of crore was drawl which has been auction by GOI
drawl of loan) fully repaid / adjusted during the
year.
*Note: The loan of ` 570.18 crore to RGPPL has not been recognized in the books due to uncertainty involved therein.
400 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 401
b) Investment in joint venture companies:* (ii) Profit attributable to equity shareholders (used as numerator) (````` Crore)
Sl. Company name Country of Proportion of ownership Particulars For the year For the year
No. incorporation interest ended ended
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
As at As at
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 From operations including net movement in regulatory deferral 18,079.39 17,196.73
1 Utility Powertech Ltd. India 50.00 50.00 account balances (a) [A]
2 NTPC-GE Power Services Private Ltd. India 50.00 50.00 From regulatory deferral account balances (b) [B] 1,134.25 (591.09)
3 NTPC-SAIL Power Company Ltd. India 50.00 50.00 From operations excluding net movement in regulatory deferral 16,945.14 17,787.82
account balances (a)-(b) [C]
4 NTPC-Tamil Nadu Energy Company Ltd. India 50.00 50.00
5 Aravali Power Company Private Ltd. India 50.00 50.00
(iii) Weighted average number of equity shares (used as denominator) (Nos.)
6 NTPC BHEL Power Projects Private Ltd. India 50.00 50.00
Particulars For the year For the year
7 Meja Urja Nigam Private Ltd. India 50.00 50.00 ended ended
8 Transformers and Electricals Kerala Ltd. India 44.60 44.60 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
9 National High Power Test Laboratory Private Ltd. India 21.63 20.00 Opening balance of issued equity shares 9,69,66,66,134 9,69,66,66,134
10 Energy Efficiency Services Ltd. India 39.252 33.334 Closing balance of issued equity shares 9,69,66,66,134 9,69,66,66,134
11 CIL NTPC Urja Private Ltd. India 50.00 50.00 Weighted average number of equity shares for Basic and Diluted EPS [D] 9,69,66,66,134 9,69,66,66,134
12 Anushakti Vidhyut Nigam Ltd. India 49.00 49.00
13 Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Ltd. India 29.67 29.67 62. Disclosure as per Ind AS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’
14 Jhabua Power Ltd. (w.e.f. 5 September 2022) India 50.00 50.00 As required by Ind AS 36, an assessment of impairment of assets was carried out and based on such assessment, the
15 Trincomalee Power Company Ltd. Srilanka 50.00 50.00 Company has accounted impairment losses as under:
16 Bangladesh-India Friendship Power Company Bangladesh 50.00 50.00 a) For the Company, the recoverable amount of the property, plant and equipment & intangible assets of the Cash
Private Ltd. Generating Units (CGU) is value in use and amounts to ````` 3,39,129.52 crore (31 March 2023: ` 2,87,698.56 crore).
The net realisable value of the assets of the station has been assessed which is more than its carrying value.The
* Equity investments in subsidiary and joint venture companies are measured at cost as per the provisions of Ind AS 27
discount rate used for the computation of value in use for the generating plant (thermal, gas and hydro) is 7.58 %
on ‘Separate Financial Statements’.
(31 March 2023: 7.27%), coal mining is 7.93 % (31 March 2023: 7.27%) and for solar plant is 6.65 % (31 March 2023:
61. Disclosure as per Ind AS 33 ‘Earnings per share’ 6.42%).
Basic earnings per equity share is computed by dividing the net profit or loss attributable to equity shareholders of the b) In respect of investment in National High Power Test Laboratory Private Ltd., provision for impairment on investments
Company by the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the financial year. has been recognised at ````` 36.48 crore (31 March 2023: ` 30.40 crore). Also refer Note 7 (e).
Diluted earnings per equity share is computed by dividing the net profit or loss attributable to equity shareholders of the c) In respect of investment in NTPC BHEL Power Project Pvt. Ltd., provision for impairment on investments has been
Company by the weighted average number of equity shares considered for deriving basic earnings per equity share and recognised at ````` 50.00 crore (31 March 2023: ` 50.00 crore). Also refer Note 7 (f).
also the weighted average number of equity shares that could have been issued upon conversion of all dilutive potential
d) In respect of investment in Transformers and Electricals Kerala Ltd., provision for impairment on investments has
equity shares.
been recognised at ````` 25.87 crore (31 March 2023: ` Nil). Also refer Note 7(g).
The number of equity shares and potentially dilutive equity shares are adjusted retrospectively for all periods presented
e) In respect of investment in Energy Efficiency Services Ltd. (EESL), provision for impairment on investments has been
for any bonus shares issued during the financial year.
recognised at ````` 149.10 crore (31 March 2023: ` Nil). Also refer Note 7(j).
Basic and diluted earnings per equity share are also computed using the net profit or loss amounts excluding the net
The Company has an investment of ````` 846.61 crore (31 March 2023 - ` 463.61 crore) in the equity shares of EESL. The
movements in regulatory deferral account balances.
Company has incurred losses during last few years which has resulted in erosion of net worth of the Company. Also,
(i) Basic and diluted earnings per share (in `````) value of EESL’s assets has declined during the period significantly more than would be expected as a result of the
Particulars For the year For the year passage of time or normal use. The investment in EESL has been assessed through an independent expert and the
ended ended recoverable amount of this investment has been assessed at ` 697.51 crore and accordingly the Company has
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 recognized an impairment loss of ` 149.10 crore in respect of such investment and disclosed the same under ‘Provision
for Impairment of investments’ under Note-46- ‘Other expenses’. Recoverable amount is based on the value in use
From operations including net movement in regulatory deferral 18.64 17.73
as its fair value less cost of disposals cannot be estimated. Value in use has been arrived at by an independent
account balances (a) [A/D]
expert. For computing the recoverable amount, independent expert has used discounted cash flow and market
From regulatory deferral account balances (b) [B/D] 1.17 (0.60) approach which had been equally weighted to arrive at the value in use. For discounted cash flow analysis, the key
From operations excluding net movement in regulatory deferral 17.47 18.33 assumptions considered are: (i) Growth rate – 5% (ii) Discount factor (after tax) – 14.5%.
account balances (a)-(b) [C/D]
f) In respect of investment in Trincomalee Power Company Limited, provision for impairment on investments has been
Nominal value per share 10.00 10.00 recognised at ````` 14.28 crore (31 March 2023: ` 14.28 crore). Also refer Note 7 (k).
402 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 403
g) In respect of investment in Ratnagiri Gas & Power Pvt. Ltd., provision for impairment on investments made in the Hon’ble High Court directed the parties to commence formal handing over of the infrastructure in the presence
earlier years amounting to ` 834.55 crore, has been written back during the year. (Also refer Note 7(b) and Note 51) of appointed Local Commissioner which could not commence due to various local and operator’s issues. Date
of hearing at Hon’ble High Court of Delhi has been adjourned several times and now the date of next hearing
63. Disclosure as per Ind AS 37 ‘Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets’ has been fixed on 24 and 25 July 2024.
Pending final disposal of the appeal by the Hon’ble High Court, considering the provisions of Ind AS 37 ‘Provisions,
Movements in provisions: ` Crore
Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets’ and material accounting policies of the Company, provision has
Particulars Provision for Provision for tariff Arbitration awards Mine closure and Total
been updated by interest to ````` 38.59 crore (31 March 2023: ` 38.42 crore) (included at (a)(i) above) and an
obligations incidental adjustment and others Stripping activity
to land acquisition adjustments amount of ````` 1,870.55 crore (31 March 2023: ` 2,431.04 crore) has been considered as contingent liability.
Further, the amount deposited with Delhi high court has been reviewed during the year and as an abundant
For the year ended For the year ended For the year ended For the year ended For the year ended
precaution, the amount deposited has been fully provided for, conservatively.
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March
2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 Also Refer Note 72 and 75.
Carrying amount at the beginning 2,295.07 2,726.80 817.61 482.28 2,760.43 2,422.20 935.68 616.22 6,808.79 6,247.50 (iv) (a) Provision for Mine closure obligation represents Company’s obligations for land reclamation and
of the year
decommissioning of structure consist of spending at mines in accordance with the guidelines from Ministry of
Additions during the year 226.33 219.90 (16.47) 335.33 267.70 389.93 149.41 339.02 626.97 1,284.18 Coal, Government of India. The Company estimates its obligations for mine closure, site restoration and
Amounts used during the year (794.06) (573.67) - - (334.36) (8.45) - - (1,128.42) (582.12) decommissioning based on the detailed calculation and technical assessment of the amount and timing of
Reversal/adjustments during the year - (77.96) - - (565.30) (43.25) 12.52 - (552.78) (121.21) future cash spending for the required work and provided for as per approved mine closure plan. Accordingly, a
provision amounting to ````` 494.01 crore (31 March 2023: ` 323.80 crore) has since been provided for. (Refer
Unwinding of provision charged during - - - - - - - (19.56) - (19.56)
the year material accounting policy C.6.2)
Carrying amount at the end of the year 1,727.34 2,295.07 801.14 817.61 2,128.47 2,760.43 1,097.61 935.68 5,754.56 6,808.79 (b) Provision for Expenditure incurred on removal of mine waste materials (overburden) necessary to extract the
i) Provision for obligations incidental to land acquisition coal reserves is referred to as stripping cost. The Company has to incur such expenses over the life of the mine
as technically estimated. Cost of stripping is charged on technically evaluated average stripping ratio at each
Provision for obligations incidental to land acquisition includes expenditure on rehabilitation & resettlement (R&R)
mine with due adjustment for stripping activity asset and ratio-variance account after the mines are brought to
including the amounts payable to the project affected persons (PAPs) towards land, expenditure for providing
revenue. Net of the balances of stripping activity asset and ratio variance at the Balance Sheet date is shown as
community facilities and expenditure in connection with environmental aspects of the project. The Company has
‘Stripping activity adjustment’ under the head ‘Non-current assets/Non-current provisions’ as the case may be,
estimated the provision based on the Rehabilitation Action Plan (RAP) approved by the board/competent authority
and adjusted as provided in the CERC Tariff Regulations. Accordingly, a provision amounting to ````` 603.60 crore
or agreements/directions/demand letters of the local/government authorities. The outflow of said provision is
(31 March 2023: ` 611.88 crore) has since been provided for. (Refer material accounting policy C.6.1)
expected to be incurred immediately on fulfilment of conditions by the land oustees/receipts of directions of the
v) In respect of provision for cases under litigation, outflow of economic benefits is dependent upon the final outcome
local/government authorities.
of such cases.
ii) Provision for tariff adjustment
vi) In all these cases, outflow of economic benefits is expected within next one year.
Billing to beneficiaries is being done based on tariff orders issued under Regulation 2014 except few stations where
vii) Sensitivity of estimates on provisions:
billing is done on provisional basis due to non-receipt of tariff orders. In such cases, accounting is done based on
trued up cash expenditure as per Regulation 2019. Provision for tariff adjustment of ````` 16.47 crore is mainly towards The assumptions made for provisions relating to current period are consistent with those in the earlier years. The
reversal of the estimated interest(net) payable to beneficiaries (31 March 2023 towards estimated interest payable assumptions and estimates used for recognition of such provisions are qualitative in nature and their likelihood
to beneficiaries: ` 335.33 crore)at the time of issue of tariff orders. could alter in next financial year. It is impracticable for the Company to compute the possible effect of changes in
assumptions and estimates used in recognizing these provisions.
iii) Provision - Arbitration awards and Others
viii)Contingent liabilities and contingent assets
(a) (i) Provision for arbitration awards represents provision created (net) based on awards pronounced by the
arbitrator in respect of various litigation cases amounting to ````` 2,021.62 crore (31 March 2023: ` 2,646.94 Disclosure with respect to claims against the Company not acknowledged as debts and contingent assets are made
crore). These awards have been challenged before various appellate authorities / Courts. in Note 75.
(ii) Provision for others includes ````` 99.40 crore (31 March 2023: ` 90.79 crore) towards cost of unfinished 64. Disclosure as per Ind AS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’
minimum work programme demanded by the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas (MoP&NG) including
Research expenditure recognised as expense in the Statement of Profit and Loss during the year is ````` 99.44 crore (31
interest thereon in relation to Block AA-ONN-2003/2 , ````` 5.12 crore (31 March 2023: ` 5.96 crore) towards
March 2023: ` 233.48 crore).
provision for shortage in property, plant and equipment on physical verification pending investigation and
````` Nil (31 March 2023: ` 12.81 crore) towards expected loss on investments of Provident Fund Trust.
65. Disclosure as per Ind AS 106, ‘Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources’
(b) The Company had entered into an agreement for movement of coal through inland waterways for one of its
A. Oil and gas exploration activities
stations. After commencement of the operations, the operator had raised several disputes, invoked arbitration
and raised substantial claims on the Company. The Arbitral Tribunal had awarded a claim of ` 1,891.09 crore The Company has joint arrangements with others for operations in the nature of joint operations. The Company recognizes,
plus applicable interest in favour of the operator, during the financial year 2018-19. Based on the interim arbitral on a line-by-line basis its share of the assets, liabilities and expenses of these joint operations as per the terms and
award and subsequent directions of the Hon’ble Delhi High Court and Hon’ble Supreme Court of India, an conditions of respective arrangements.
amount of ` 356.31 crore was paid to Operator upto 31 March 2019 and an amount of ` 500 crore was deposited
All exploration costs incurred in drilling and equipping exploratory and appraisal wells, cost of drilling exploratory type
with the Delhi High Court in November 2019, which was subsequently released to the Operator, on submission
stratigraphic test wells are initially capitalized as ‘Exploratory wells-in-progress’ under ‘Intangible assets under
of bank guarantee.
404 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 405
development’ till the time these are either transferred to oil and gas assets when a well is ready for commercial production crore) has been made towards NTPC’s share as per arbitration decision given in favor of a contractor of the block.
or expensed as exploration cost (including allocated depreciation) as and when determined to be dry or of no further Aginst this, an amount of ` 13.65 crore has been deposited in honourable Delhi high court during the year. NTPC
use, as the case may be. Costs of exploratory wells are not carried over unless it could be reasonably demonstrated that filed a writ petition under section 34 of Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 in this matter before Hon’ble Delhi
there are indications of sufficient quantity of reserves and sufficient progress is being made in assessing the reserves and High Court which is yet to be disposed.
the economic & operating viability of the project. All such carried over costs are subject to review for impairment.Cost of
For the year ended 31 March 2024 and 31 March 2023, there are no income and operating/investing cash flow from
surveys and prospecting activities conducted in the search of oil and gas are expensed in the year in which these are
exploration activities. The value of assets reported above is based on statement received from the operator in the
incurred.
earlier years.
(i) The Company along-with some public sector undertakings had entered into Production Sharing Contracts (PSCs)
(iii) The Company had entered into production sharing contracts (PSC) with GOI for exploration block namely CB-ONN-
with GOI for three oil exploration blocks namely KG-OSN-2009/1, KG-OSN-2009/4 and AN-DWN-2009/13 under VIII
2009/5 VIII round of New Exploration Licensing Policy (NELP VIII) with 100% participating interest (PI) in the block.
round of New Exploration Licensing Policy (NELP VIII) with 10% participating interest (PI) in each of the blocks.
MWP for the block has been completed. No oil or gas of commercial value was observed in any of the wells.
In the case of Block AN-DWN-2009/13 and KG-OSN-2009/1, Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Ltd. (ONGC) was the
Accordingly, the block has been relinquished to DGH, GOI.
operator and the Company along-with the consortium partners have relinquished both the blocks to Directorate
General of Hydrocarbons (DGH). Company’s share in assets and liabilities is as under:
````` Crore
Based on the un-audited statement of the accounts for the above blocks forwarded by ONGC, the operator, the
Particulars As at As at
Company’s share in the assets and liabilities and expenses is as under:
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
````` Crore
Assets 6.11 6.11
Particulars As at As at
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 Liabilities 0.25 0.25
(Unaudited) (Unaudited)
Provision of ````` 6.07 crore as at 31 March 2024 (31 March 2023: ` 6.07 crore) has been made as at the balance sheet
Assets 0.01 0.01
date, towards estimated obsolescence in the inventory.
Liabilities 0.49 0.49
For the year ended 31 March 2024 and 31 March 2023, there are no income, expenses, operating and investing cash
flows from exploration activities.
For the year ended 31 March 2024 and 31 March 2023, there are no income / expense and operating/investing cash
flow from exploration activities, except an amount of ‘0.08 crore paid during the year to the operator towards B. Coal mining exploration activities
license fee.
Exploration and evaluation assets comprise capitalized costs which is generally the expenditure incurred associated with
For exploration activities in block KG-OSN-2009/4 DGH has agreed for drilling of one well and have instructed to finding the mineral by carrying out topographical, geological, geochemical and geophysical studies, exploratory drilling,
carry out airborne Full Tensor Gravity Gradiometer (FTG) survey in conditionally & partial cleared area. ONGC has trenching, sampling, expenditure for activities in relation to evaluation of technical feasibility and commercial viability,
completed drilling of one well. Airborne Full Tensor Gravity Gradiometer (FTG) survey work is also completed. The acquisition of rights to explore etc. Exploration and evaluation expenditure incurred after obtaining the mining right or
Company along-with the consortium partners has decided to relinquish the block and Oil and Natural Gas Corporation the legal right to explore are capitalized as exploration and evaluation assets under ‘Intangible assets under development’
Ltd. (ONGC), the operator, has submitted an application to Directorate General of Hydrocarbons (DGH) in this regard, and stated at cost less impairment if any. Exploration and evaluation assets are assessed for impairment indicators at
in the earlier years. least annually. Once the proved reserves are determined and development of mine/project is sanctioned, Exploration
and evaluation assets are transferred to ‘Development of Coal Mines’ under ‘Capital Work in Progress’. However, if
(ii) Exploration activities in the block AA-ONN-2003/2 were abandoned in January 2011 due to unforeseen geological
proved reserves are not determined, exploration and evaluation asset is derecognized. Exploration and evaluation
conditions and withdrawal of the operator. Attempts to reconstitute the consortium to accomplish the residual
expenditure incurred prior to obtaining the mining right or the legal right to explore are expensed as and when incurred.
exploratory activities did not yield result. In the meanwhile, Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas, GoI demanded in
January 2011 the cost of unfinished minimum work programme from the consortium with NTPC’s share being USD (i) The Company has started coal production from five captive mines i.e Pakri-Barwadih, Dulanga, Talaipalli, Chatti-
7.516 million. During the year, provision in this respect has been updated to ````` 99.49 crore from ` 90.79 crore along- Bariatu and Kerandari. During the year, Mine Development Operator (MDO) has been appointed for Badam Mines.
with interest. The Company has sought waiver of the claim citing force majeure conditions at site leading to Pakri Barwadih was declared commercial w.e.f. 1 April 2019 and about 16.31 MMT coal was extracted during the
discontinuation of exploratory activities. current year. Dulanga was declared commercial w.e.f. 1 October 2020 and 7.00 MMT coal was extracted during the
current year. Talaipalli was declared commercial w.e.f. 1 October 2023 and 7.54 MT of coal was extracted during the
The Company has accounted for expenditure of ````` 8.70 crore (31 March 2023: ` (21.37) crore) towards updation of
year. Chatti-Bariatu , Kerandari and Badam mines are under development stage and expenditure incurred at these
liabilities relating to MWP and other liabilities of M/s Geopetrol International, the operator to complete the winding
mines are disclosed in Note 3 - Capital work in progress under ‘Development of coal mines’. During the year 3.30
up activities of the Block. The Company’s share in the assets and liabilities are as under:
MMT of coal was extracted from Chatti-Bariatu and 0.235 MMT of coal from Kerendari.
````` Crore
In respect of Talaipalli coal mine, there was a delay of 22.5 months in the commecial declaration of the mine. The
Particulars As at As at
revised Mining plan for Talaipalli Coal Mine, as recommended by CMPDIL was approved by CCO (Coal Controller
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Organization) on 26 September 2023. The Company has filed a petition for determination of tariff for the coal mine
(Unaudited) (Unaudited)
and condoning the delay as provided in Regulation 22 of the CERC (Terms and Conditions of Tariff) (Second
Assets 9.19 9.19
Amendment) Regulations 2021, which is yet to be disposed off.
Liabilities (including unfinished MWP) 115.14 106.44
Provision of ````` 8.96 crore as at 31 March 2024 (31 March 2023: ` 8.96 crore) has been made towards the assets
under exploration and estimated obsolescence in the inventory. Further, a provision of Nil (31 March 2023: ` 0.23
406 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 407
(ii) Surrendered coal blocks- Banai,Bhalumuda and Mandakini-B 66. Disclosure as per Ind AS 108 ‘Operating Segments’
Due to geo-mining constraints and other related issues NTPC surrendered Banai and Bhalumuda blocks to MoC on A. General Information
26.12.2020. The Company expects that whenever these two coal blocks are allotted to any other company, the cost
The Company has two reportable segments, as described below, which are the Company’s strategic business units. The
incurred towards exploration and GR at these mines would be reimbursed from the new allocatee through MOC as
strategic business units offer different products and services, and are managed separately because they require different
per past experience of the Company. Keeping in view the above, an amount of ````` 124.00 crore (31 March 2023:
technology and marketing strategies. For each of the strategic business units, the Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM)
` 124.00 crore) has been accounted as recoverable and included under Note-19- ‘Current assets - Other financial
reviews internal management reports on at least a quarterly basis.
assets’. These coal blocks have been allotted to another entity in the commercial coal mine auction notified by MoC.
Segment results that are reported to the CODM include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can
Execution of coal mine development and production agreement between MoC and the entity is in progress.
be allocated on a reasonable basis. Unallocated items comprise mainly corporate expenses, finance costs, income tax
Subsequent to execution of the agreement, the recovery of the above amount from the new allottee shall be initiated
expenses and corporate income that are not directly attributable to segments.
by MoC before issuance of formal vesting order for which the Company has requested MoC for the same.
Revenue directly attributable to the segments is considered as segment revenue. Expenses directly attributable to the
Since mine development activities could not be proceeded due to various issues at Mandakini-B coal block, the
segments and common expenses allocated on a reasonable basis are considered as segment expenses.
Company has approached Ministry of Coal on 26 December 2020 for surrendering these blocks, with a request for
consideration of reimbursement of expenses incurred by the Company. The Company expects that whenever these Segment capital expenditure is the total cost incurred during the period to acquire property, plant and equipment,
two coal blocks are allotted to any other company, the cost incurred towards exploration and GR would be reimbursed Capital Wok in Progress, intangible assets other than goodwill and intangible assets under development.
from the new allocatee through MOC as per past experience of the Company. Keeping in view the above, an amount Segment assets comprise property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, capital work in progress, intangible assets
of ````` 56.47 crore (31 March 2023: ` 56.47 crore) has been accounted as recoverable and included under Note-19 under development, advances for capital expenditures, trade and other receivables, inventories and other assets that
‘Current assets -Other financial assets’. can be directly or reasonably allocated to segments. For the purpose of segment reporting, property, plant and equipment
have been allocated to segments based on the extent of usage of assets for operations attributable to the respective
MoC has encashed the BG (Performance Security) of ` 168.00 crore on 22 March 2021, submitted by the Company
segments. Unallocated assets comprise investments, income tax assets, corporate assets and other assets that cannot
for Mandakini-B coal block, citing delay in achieving of the milestones of efficiency parameters which were beyond
reasonably be allocated to segments.
the control of the Company. The Company approached MoP to take up the matter in Alternate Mechanism for
Resolution of CPSE Disputes (AMRCD). Pending resolution of the dispute through AMRCD, the amount of BG encashed Segment liabilities include all operating liabilities in respect of a segment and consist principally of trade payable, payable
by MOC has been disclosed as recoverable from MOC under ‘Claims recoverable’ in Note-19-’Current assets-Other for capital expenditure and other payables, provision for employee benefits and other provisions. Unallocated liabilities
financial assets’. This issue is regularly being taken up with MoC by the Company and MoP for early settlement. comprise equity, income tax liabilities, loans and borrowings and other liabilities and provisions that cannot reasonably
be allocated to segments.
The Coal Block Development and Production Agreement (CBDPA) signed by the Company with MOC is silent about
the recoverability of expenditure incurred in case of termination of the CBDPA. Moreover, the fresh auction / allocation The following summary describes the operations in each of the Company’s reportable segments:
of mines by MOC may also take substantial time and is dependent upon the coal demand-supply scenario of the Generation of energy : Generation and sale of bulk power to State Power Utilities.
country in the days to come. Considering the uncertainty involved on the recoverability of the amounts in respect of
Others : It includes providing consultancy, project management and supervision, energy trading, oil and gas exploration
Banai, Bhalamuda and Mandakini-B coal blocks, the amount disclosed as claims recoverable has since been fully
and coal mining.
provided for. Further, the balance expenditure incurred at these blocks which may not be recovered has also been
Information regarding the results of each reportable segment is included below. Performance is measured based on
provided for fully (Refer Note 6- ‘Non-current assets - Intangible assets under development’).
segment profit before income tax, as included in the internal management reports that are reviewed by the Company’s
(iii) Assets and liabilities of coal exploration and evaluation activities are as under:
Board. Segment profit is used to measure performance as management believes that such information is the most
````` Crore
relevant in evaluating the results of certain segments relative to other entities that operate within these industries.
Particulars As at As at
Transfer prices between operating segments are on an arm’s length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
parties.
Assets (Intangible assets under development) - 85.13
B. Information about reportable segments and reconciliations to amounts reflected in the financial statements:
Liabilities - 0.11 ````` Crore
Particulars Generation of energy Others Total
Exploration and evaluation activities were taking place at under ground mine area/dip side area (North west quarry)
of PB block which has since been completed and capitlised. For the year ended For the year ended For the year ended
For the year ended 31 March 2024 and 31 March 2023, there are no income, expenses and operating cash flows 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March
from coal exploration activities. Cash flows from investing activities for the year ended 31 March 2024 is (-) ````` 85.02 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
crore (31 March 2023: ` (50.47) crore) Segment revenue
(iv) In respect of captive mines, book stock of coal is considered in the accounts where the variance between book stock Sale of energy/consultancy, project 1,56,175.40 1,57,782.01 9,776.94 7,898.43 1,65,952.34 1,65,680.44
and measured stock is upto +/- 5% and in cases where the variance is beyond +/- 5% the measured stock is considered. management and supervision fee*
Other income 2,901.06 3,323.99 93.16 58.30 2,994.22 3,382.29
(v) The Company had incorporated a wholly owned subsidiary, in the name of ‘NTPC Mining Limited’ (NML) on 29
August 2019, for taking up coal mining business. The Board of Directors of the Company has approved the hiving-off 1,59,076.46 1,61,106.00 9,870.10 7,956.73 1,68,946.56 1,69,062.73
its coal mining business, consisting of 6 coal mines of the Company to NML at book value, through a business Intersegment elimination - - - - (5,615.83) (3,990.87)
transfer agreement (BTA) dated 17 August 2023. The BTA shall become effective upon completion of the conditions Unallocated corporate interest and - - - - 2,376.54 2,652.55
precedent mentioned in the BTA.The transfer is yet to take place as at 31 March 2024. other income
Total 1,59,076.46 1,61,106.00 9,870.10 7,956.73 1,65,707.27 1,67,724.41
408 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 409
````` Crore Reconciliation of Assets and Liabilities
Particulars Generation of energy Others Total ````` Crore
For the year ended For the year ended For the year ended Particulars As at As at
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March
Segment assets (A) 3,51,906.15 3,42,931.01
2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
Unallocated corporate and other assets:
Segment result (including net 31,497.75 30,072.35 658.43 816.21 32,156.18 30,888.56
Non current investments 33,107.93 29,719.75
movements in regulatory deferral
account balances)** Current investments 50.00 50.00
Cash and cash equivalents and other bank balances 3,272.01 2,690.24
Unallocated corporate interest - - - - 2,376.54 2,652.55
and other income Loans 634.91 981.34
Other current assets 284.74 125.13
Unallocated corporate expenses, - - - - 9,613.17 10,190.25
interest and finance costs Advance tax (net of provision) 2,194.06 2,476.02
Profit before tax - - - - 24,919.55 23,350.86 Other unallocable assets* 1,844.73 4,700.96
Total unallocated corporate and other assets (B) 41,388.38 40,743.44
Income tax expense (including tax - - - - 6,840.16 6,154.13
on net movements in regulatory Total Assets (A+B) 3,93,294.53 3,83,674.45
deferral account balances) Segment liabilities (A) 41,945.38 44,372.29
Profit after tax - - - - 18,079.39 17,196.73 Unallocated corporate and other liabilities:
Non current borrowings 1,46,159.07 1,56,315.69
````` Crore
Deferred tax liability 13,066.53 10,614.07
Particulars Generation of energy Others Total
Borrowings current 39,059.55 29,969.15
For the year ended For the year ended For the year ended Current tax liabilities (net) - 62.97
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March Other unallocable liabilities 3,178.98 3,450.40
2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 Total unallocated corporate and other liabilities (B) 2,01,464.13 2,00,412.28
Depreciation, amortisation and 13,649.64 12,893.49 138.38 83.19 13,788.02 12,976.68 Total Liabilities (A+B) 2,43,409.51 2,44,784.57
impairment expense * Amounts as at 31 March 2023 includes investment property amounting to ` 465.18 crore (Refer Note 4) and recoverable
Non-cash expenses other than 827.23 967.55 47.70 11.00 874.93 978.55 from NGEL amounting to ` 3,196.12 crore.
depreciation and amortisation Reconciliation of profit after tax ````` Crore
Capital expenditure 14,525.45 16,853.62 1,321.81 1,035.62 15,847.26 17,889.24
Particulars For the year For the year
ended ended
````` Crore
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Particulars Generation of energy Others Total
Segment result (including net movements in regulatory deferral account 32,156.18 30,888.56
For the year ended For the year ended For the year ended
balances) (A)
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March
Unallocated corporate interest and other income (B)
2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 Dividend from non-current investments 1,639.08 2,342.54
Segment assets 3,38,097.26 3,30,492.59 13,808.89 12,438.42 3,51,906.15 3,42,931.01 Interest income 603.06 236.61
Unallocated corporate and 41,388.38 40,743.44 Miscellaneous income 134.40 73.40
other assets
Sub-total (B) 2,376.54 2,652.55
Total assets 3,38,097.26 3,30,492.59 13,808.89 12,438.42 3,93,294.53 3,83,674.45
Unallocated corporate expenses, interest and finance costs(C)
Segment liabilities 36,905.26 39,507.89 5,040.12 4,864.40 41,945.38 44,372.29
Finance costs 10,250.82 9,979.23
Unallocated corporate and 2,01,464.13 2,00,412.28
Other expenses 196.90 211.02
other liabilities
Sub total (C) 10,447.72 10,190.25
Total liabilities 36,905.26 39,507.89 5,040.12 4,864.40 2,43,409.51 2,44,784.57
Profit before tax (including net movements in regulatory deferral account 24,085.00 23,350.86
* Includes ````` 1,989.27 crore (31 March 2023: ` 1,938.58 crore) for sales related to earlier years excluding other adjustments balances) (A+B-C)
towards reimbursement of ash transportation cost.(Refer Note 40) Exceptional items (834.55) -
** Generation segment result would have been ````` 29,508.48 crore (31 March 2023: ` 28,133.57 crore) without including Income tax expense(including tax on net movements in regulatory deferral 6,840.16 6,154.13
the sales related to earlier years as stated above. account balances)
Profit after tax 18,079.39 17,196.73
The operations of the Company are mainly carried out within the country and therefore there is no reportable geographical
segment.
410 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 411
C. Information about major customers Credit risk
Revenue from customers under ‘Generation of energy’ segment which is more than 10% of the Company’s total revenues, Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Company if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet
are as under: its contractual obligations resulting in a financial loss to the Company. Credit risk arises principally from trade receivables,
Name of the customer For the year ended unbilled revenue, loans, cash and cash equivalents and deposits with banks and financial institutions.
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 Trade receivables & unbilled revenue
Amount %age Amount %age
The Company primarily sells electricity to bulk customers comprising mainly state utilities owned by State Governments.
(````` Crore) (` Crore) 2023
The Company has a robust payment security mechanism in the form of Letters of Credit (LC) backed by the Tri-Partite
Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Ltd. 17,097.16 10.55 18,447.09 11.26 Agreement (TPA). The TPAs were signed among the Govt. of India, RBI and the individual State Governments subsequent
to the issuance of the One Time Settlement Scheme of SEBs dues during 2001-02 by the GOI, which were valid till
67. Financial Risk Management October 2016. Govt of India subsequently approved the extension of these TPAs for another period of 10 years. Most of
the States have signed these extended TPAs and signing is in progress for the balance states.
The Company’s principal financial liabilities comprise loans and borrowings in foreign as well as domestic currency, trade
payables and other payables. The main purpose of these financial liabilities is to finance the Company’s operations. The CERC Tariff Regulations allow payment against monthly bill towards energy charges within a period of forty five days
Company’s principal financial assets include loans, trade and other receivables, and cash and short-term deposits that from the date of bill and levy of surcharge @ 18% p.a. on delayed payment beyond forty five days. GOI has notified
derive directly from its operations. The Company also holds equity investments and enter into derivative contracts such Electricity (Late Payment Surcharge) Rules, 2021 on 22 February 2021.These rules envisage that base rate of LPSC to be
as forward contracts, options and swaps. Derivatives are used exclusively for hedging purposes and not as trading or considered as SBI one year MCLR, as on 1 April of the financial year, plus five percent. The rate of LPSC shall be increased
speculative instruments. by 0.5 percent for every month of delay, provided that the LPSC shall not be more than 3 percent higher than the base
rate at any time.
The Company is exposed to the following risks from its use of financial instruments:- Credit risk- Liquidity risk- Market
risk A default occurs when in the view of management there is no significant possibility of recovery of receivables after
considering all available options for recovery.
This note presents information about the Company’s exposure to each of the above risks, the Company’s objectives,
policies and processes for measuring and managing risk. As per the provisions of the TPA, the customers are required to establish LC covering 105% of the average monthly billing
of the Company for last 12 months. The TPA also provided that if there is any default in payment of current dues by any
Risk Exposure arising from Measurement Management
State Utility, the outstanding dues can be deducted from the State’s RBI account and paid to the concerned CPSU. There
Credit Risk Trade receivables, unbilled revenue, Ageing analysis Credit limits, letters of credit
is also provision of regulation of power by the Company in case of non payment of dues and non-establishment of LC.
derivative financial instruments, Credit ratings and diversification of bank
financial assets measured at amortised deposits. These payment security mechanisms have served the Company well over the years. The Company has not experienced
cost and cash and cash equivalents. any significant impairment losses in respect of trade receivables in the past years. Since the Company has its power
stations as well as customers spread over various states of India, geographically there is no concentration of credit risk.
Liquidity risk Borrowings and other liabilities Rolling cash flows Availability of committed
forecast credit lines and borrowing Unbilled revenue primarily relates to the Company’s right to consideration for sale effected but not billed at the reporting
facilities date and have substantially the same risk characteristics as the trade receivables for the same type of contracts.
Market risk – - Future commercial transactions Cash flow Forward foreign exchange
Investments
foreign currency - Recognised financial assets and forecasting contracts
The Company limits its exposure to credit risk by investing in only Government of India Securities, State Government
risk liabilities not denominated in Foreign currency options
Securities and other counterparties have a high credit rating. The management actively monitors the interest rate and
Indian rupee (`) Currency and interest rate
maturity period of these investments. The Company does not expect the counterparty to fail to meet its obligations, and
swaps and principal only swaps
has not experienced any significant impairment losses in respect of any of the investments.
Market risk – Non-current borrowings at Sensitivity Different kinds of loan
interest rate risk variable rates analysis arrangements with varied Loans
terms (e.g. fixed rate loans,
The Company has given loans to employees, subsidiary companies, joint venture companies and other parties. Loans to
floating rate loans, rupee term
the employee are secured against the mortgage of the house properties and hypothecation of vehicles for which such
loans, foreign currency loans, etc.)
loans have been given in line with the policies of the Company. The loan provided to group companies are collectible in
full and risk of default is negligible. Loan to APIIC is against a guarantee given by the Government of Andhra Pradesh vide
Risk management framework
GO dated 3 April 2003.
The Company’s activities make it susceptible to various risks. The Company has taken adequate measures to address
Cash and cash equivalents
such concerns by developing adequate systems and practices.
The Company held cash and cash equivalents of ````` 197.16 crore (31 March 2023: ` 3.13 crore). The cash and cash equivalents
In order to institutionalize the risk management in the Company, an elaborate Enterprise Risk Management (ERM)
are held with banks with high rating.
framework has been developed. The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of
the Company’s risk management framework. As a part of the implementation of ERM framework, a ‘Risk Management
Committee (RMC)’ with functional directors as its members has been entrusted with the responsibility to identify and
review the risks, formulate action plans and strategies to mitigate risks on short-term as well as long-term basis.
The RMC meets every quarter to deliberate on strategies. Risks are regularly monitored through reporting of key
performance indicators. Outcomes of RMC are submitted for information of the Board of Directors.
412 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 413
Balances with banks and financial institutions, other than cash and cash equivalents (iv) Reconciliation of impairment loss provisions
The Company held balances with banks and financial institutions, including earmarked balances, of ````` 4,403.34 crore (31 The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of financial assets during the year is as follows:
March 2023: ` 3,738.60 crore). In order to manage the risk, Company places deposits with only high rated banks/ ````` Crore
institutions. Particulars Investments Trade Loans Advances Claims Total
(i) Exposure to credit risk receivables recoverable
Balance as at 1 April 2022 (i) 919.47 0.20 - 0.03 346.78 1,266.48
The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure. The maximum exposure to credit risk
at the reporting date was: Impairment loss recognised (ii) 14.24 - 6.77 - 2.54 23.55
````` Crore Balance as at 31 March 2023 (iii =i+ii) 933.71 0.20 6.77 0.03 349.32 1,290.03
Particulars As at As at Impairment loss recognised (iv) 181.05 - - - 0.22 181.27
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Impairment loss reversed (v) 834.55 - 6.77 - - 841.32
Financial assets for which loss allowance is measured
Balance as at 31 March 2024 (vi = iii+iv-v) 280.21 0.20 - 0.03 349.54 629.98
using 12 months Expected Credit Losses (ECL)
Non-current investments 33,107.93 29,719.75 Based on historic default rates, the Company believes that no impairment allowance is necessary in respect of any other
financial assets as the amounts of such allowances are not significant.
Non-current loans 800.66 1,233.47
Liquidity risk
Other non-current financial assets* 627.98 785.00
Current investments 50.00 50.00 Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will encounter difficulty in meeting the obligations associated with its financial
liabilities that are settled by delivering cash or another financial asset. The Company’s approach to managing liquidity is
Cash and cash equivalents 197.16 3.13
to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both
Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents 4,403.34 3,738.60
normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Company’s reputation.
Current loans 415.85 312.45
The Company has an appropriate liquidity risk management framework for the management of short, medium and long-
Other current financial assets** 982.78 4,177.73
term funding and liquidity management requirements. The Company manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate
Total (A) 40,585.70 40,020.13 cash reserves, banking facilities and reserve borrowing facilities by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash
Financial assets for which loss allowance is measured using life-time flows and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities.
Expected Credit Losses (ECL) as per simplified approach The Company’s Treasury department is responsible for managing the short-term and long-term liquidity requirements
Trade receivables including unbilled revenue 28,515.62 28,428.42 of the Company. Short-term liquidity situation is reviewed daily by the Treasury department. The Board of directors has
established policies to manage liquidity risk and the Company’s Treasury department operates in line with such policies.
Contract assets 10,682.16 7,096.08
Any breaches of these policies are reported to the Board of Directors. Long-term liquidity position is reviewed on a
Total (B) 39,197.78 35,524.50
regular basis by the Board of Directors and appropriate decisions are taken according to the situation.
Total (A+B) 79,783.48 75,544.63
Typically, the Company ensures that it has sufficient cash on demand to meet expected operational expenses for a
* Excluding share application money pending allotment (Refer Note 11) month, including the servicing of financial obligations, this excludes the potential impact of extreme circumstances that
cannot reasonably be predicted, such as natural disasters.
** Excluding contract assets (Refer Note 19)
As part of the CERC Regulations, tariff inter-alia includes recovery of capital cost. The tariff regulations also provide for
(ii) Provision for expected credit losses recovery of energy charges, operations and maintenance expenses and interest on normative working capital
requirements. Since billing to the customers are generally on a monthly basis, the Company maintains sufficient liquidity
(a) Financial assets for which loss allowance is measured using 12 month expected credit losses
to service financial obligations and to meet its operational requirements.
The Company has assets where the counter-parties have sufficient capacity to meet the obligations and where the
(i) Financing arrangements
risk of default is very low. Accordingly, no loss allowance for impairment has been recognised.
The Company had access to the following undrawn borrowing facilities at the end of the reporting period:
(b) Financial assets for which loss allowance is measured using life-time expected credit losses as per simplified
````` Crore
approach
Particulars As at As at
The Company has customers (State government utilities) with capacity to meet the obligations and therefore the
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
risk of default is negligible or nil. Further, management believes that the unimpaired amounts that are past due by
Floating-rate borrowings
more than 30 days are still collectible in full, based on historical payment behaviour and extensive analysis of customer
credit risk. Hence, no impairment loss has been recognised during the reporting periods in respect of trade receivables Cash credit 2,450.00 2,155.00
and unbilled revenue. Term loans 3,008.58 6,351.58
(iii) Ageing analysis of trade receivables Foreign currency loans 5,456.75 3,309.60
Refer Note 15(d) Total 10,915.33 11,816.18
414 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 415
(ii) Maturities of financial liabilities The Board of Directors is responsible for setting up of policies and procedures to manage market risks of the Company.
All such transactions are carried out within the guidelines set by the risk management committee.
The following are the contractual maturities of derivative and non-derivative financial liabilities (un-discounted), based
on contractual cash flows: Currency risk
31 March 2024 ````` Crore The Company is exposed to foreign currency risk on certain transactions that are denominated in a currency other than
Contractual maturities of financial liabilities Contractual cash flows entity’s functional currency, hence exposure to exchange rate fluctuations arises. The risk is that the functional currency
value of cash flows will vary as a result of movements in exchange rates.
3 months 3-12 1-2 2-5 More than Total
or less months years years 5 years The currency profile of financial assets and financial liabilities as at 31 March 2024 and 31 March 2023 are as below:
Non-derivative financial liabilities As at 31 March 2024 ````` Crore
Secured bonds 278.66 5,906.08 1,241.34 7,774.84 11,009.16 26,210.08
Particulars USD EURO JPY Others Total
Unsecured bonds 2,051.20 407.52 5,500.00 3,000.00 14,171.00 25,129.72
Financial assets
Rupee term loans from banks 1,342.20 4,969.55 6,737.64 22,271.05 33,593.19 68,913.63
Trade and other receivables 4.97 - - - 4.97
Rupee term loans from others - 238.75 318.33 955.00 2,705.83 4,217.91
Total 4.97 - - - 4.97
Lease obligations 141.40 51.53 62.41 200.92 2,250.26 2,706.52
Financial liabilities
Foreign currency notes 3,911.51 4,240.85 4,197.50 7,933.50 - 20,283.36
Foreign currency bonds 15,686.90 4,596.47 - - 20,283.37
Unsecured foreign currency loans from 408.78 821.65 826.33 13,945.02 9,622.53 25,624.31
Unsecured foreign currency loans from 7,906.18 3,381.70 15,181.95 - 26,469.83
banks and financial institutions
banks and financial institutions
Unsecured foreign currency loans - 164.92 163.47 376.57 140.56 845.52
Trade payables and other financial liabilities 1,527.30 663.82 92.54 2.09 2,285.75
(guaranteed by GOI)
Total 25,120.38 8,641.99 15,274.49 2.09 49,038.95
Commercial paper, cash credit and Short 13,388.20 3,500.00 - - - 16,888.20
term working capital loan As at 31 March 2023 ` Crore
Trade and other payables 26,868.71 1,849.56 337.11 278.02 399.26 29,732.66 Particulars USD EURO JPY Others Total
Financial assets
31 March 2023 ` Crore
Trade and other receivables 1.22 - - - 1.22
Contractual maturities of financial liabilities Contractual cash flows
Total 1.22 - - - 1.22
3 months 3-12 1-2 2-5 More than Total
Financial liabilities
or less months years years 5 years
Foreign currency bonds 15,391.81 4,564.32 - - 19,956.13
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Unsecured foreign currency loans from 8,180.71 2,774.16 13,979.22 - 24,934.09
Secured bonds 553.57 6,531.25 5,389.73 4,502.84 15,522.50 32,499.89
banks and financial institutions
Unsecured bonds 4,989.11 402.76 1,500.00 4,000.00 14,171.00 25,062.87
Trade payables and other financial liabilities 1,429.26 716.59 34.28 11.73 2,191.86
Rupee term loans from banks 1,107.88 4,214.34 6,087.82 21,752.19 35,715.18 68,877.41
Total 25,001.78 8,055.07 14,013.50 11.73 47,082.08
Rupee term loans from others 107.82 276.10 363.84 1,130.06 3,111.06 4,988.88
The gain/(loss) on account of exchange rate variations on all foreign currency loans and foreign currency monetary items
Lease obligations 139.00 62.42 76.73 193.33 2,268.85 2,740.33
is recoverable from beneficiaries considering the CERC Tariff Regulations. Therefore, currency risk in respect of such
Foreign currency notes 62.85 42.88 7,860.30 11,990.10 - 19,956.13
exposure would not be very significant.
Unsecured foreign currency loans from 339.06 846.00 990.33 8,495.58 13,129.52 23,800.49
Sensitivity analysis
banks and financial institutions
Unsecured foreign currency loans - 185.54 183.61 485.94 278.52 1,133.61 Since the impact of strengthening or weakening of INR against USD, EURO, JPY and other currencies on the statement of
(guaranteed by GOI) profit and loss would not be very significant; therefore, sensitivity analysis for currency risk is not disclosed.
Commercial paper, cash credit and Short 11,874.03 1,000.00 - - - 12,874.03 Embedded derivatives
term working capital loan
Certain contracts of the Company for construction of power plants with vendors awarded through International
Trade and other payables 25,452.22 3,228.76 887.09 1,179.63 719.47 31,467.17 Competitive Bidding are denominated in a third currency i.e. a currency which is not the functional currency of any of
the parties to the contract. The Company has awarded the above contracts without any intention to enter into any
Market risk derivative contract or to leverage/ take position and without any option/intention to net settle at any point of time
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates and interest rates will affect the during the tenure of the contract. The Company has not separately recognised the foreign currency embedded derivative
Company’s income. The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within and has not designated the entire hybrid contract at fair value through profit or loss considering the same as not practicable
acceptable parameters, while optimising the return. and absence of a reliable valuation model.
416 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 417
Interest rate risk Cash flow sensitivity analysis for variable-rate instruments
The Company is exposed to interest rate risk arising mainly from non-current borrowings with floating interest rates. The A change of 50 basis points in interest rates at the reporting date would have increased (decreased) profit or loss by the
Company is exposed to interest rate risk because the cash flows associated with floating rate borrowings will fluctuate amounts shown below. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant.
with changes in interest rates. The Company manages the interest rate risks by entering into different kinds of loan The analysis is performed on the same basis for the previous year.
arrangements with varied terms (e.g. fixed rate loans, floating rate loans, rupee term loans, foreign currency loans, etc.). Particulars Profit or loss
At the reporting date, the interest rate profile of the Company’s interest-bearing financial instruments is as follows: 50 bp increase 50 bp decrease
````` Crore 31 March 2024
Particulars 31 March 2024 31 March 2023 Foreign currency loans/notes (112.06) 112.06
Financial Assets: Rupee term loans (359.27) 359.27
Fixed-rate instruments Cash credit and Short term working capital loan (0.37) 0.37
(471.70) 471.70
Loans to related parties 412.50 779.60
31 March 2023
Debentures 525.00 575.00
Foreign currency loans/notes (94.03) 94.03
Loans to others 17.20 21.50
Rupee term loans (393.04) 393.04
Bank deposits 4,286.46 3,634.68
Cash credit and Short term working capital loan (3.44) 3.44
Total 5,241.16 5,010.78
(490.51) 490.51
Variable-rate instruments
Of the above mentioned increase in the interest expense, an amount of ````` 109.34 crore (31 March 2023: ` 122.28 crore)
Loans to related parties - -
is expected to be capitalised and recovered from beneficiaries through tariff.
Total - -
Change in interest benchmarks
Financial Liabilities:
As part of the IBOR transition, the Company has replaced the USD LIBOR with compounded SOFR for all financial
Fixed-rate instruments
instruments, requiring the renegotiation of financing contracts. Changes to contractual cash flows as a result of replacing
Bonds 51,337.15 57,560.02
the existing benchmark interest rate on an economically equivalent basis as a direct consequence of the interest rate
Foreign currency loans/notes* 22,309.49 22,611.07 benchmark reform are accounted for by adjusting the effective interest rate without recognizing any direct modification
Rupee term loans - 16.84 gains or losses. There is no material impact on the change of the benchmark rate.
Commercial paper and Short term working capital loan 16,767.58 12,833.76 (Note: IBOR-Inter Bank Offered Rates, LIBOR-London Interbank Offered Rate, SOFR – Secured Overnight Financing Rate)
Lease obligations 987.39 986.23
68. Fair Value Measurements
91,401.61 94,007.92
a) Financial instruments by category
Variable-rate instruments
````` Crore
Foreign currency loans/notes 24,122.57 21,937.48
Particulars 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Rupee term loans 73,131.55 73,849.45
FVTPL FVTOCI Amortised FVTPL FVTOCI Amortised
Cash credit - - Cost Cost
97,254.12 95,786.93 Financial assets
Total 1,88,655.73 1,89,794.85 Investments
- Equity instruments 3.78 223.20 32,405.95 3.78 102.30 29,088.67
Fair value sensitivity analysis for fixed-rate instruments
- Debentures - - 525.00 - - 575.00
The Company’s fixed rate instruments are carried at amortised cost. They are therefore not subject to interest rate risk,
Trade Receivables - - 28,515.62 - - 28,428.42
since neither the carrying amount nor the future cash flows will fluctuate because of a change in market interest rates.
Loans - - 1,216.51 - - 1,545.92
Cash and cash equivalents - - 197.16 - - 3.13
Other bank balances - - 4,403.34 - - 3,738.60
Finance lease receivables - - 211.01 - - 285.19
Other financial assets - - 12,081.91 - - 11,911.55
3.78 223.20 79,556.50 3.78 102.30 75,576.48
418 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 419
` Crore Level 3: If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in
Particulars 31 March 2024 31 March 2023 level 3. The fair value of financial assets and liabilities included in Level 3 is determined in accordance with generally
accepted pricing models based on discounted cash flow analysis using prices from prevailing market transactions and
FVTPL FVTOCI Amortised FVTPL FVTOCI Amortised
dealer quotes of similar instruments.
Cost Cost
There have been no transfers in either direction for the years ended 31 March 2024 and 31 March 2023.
Financial liabilities
Borrowings (including interest accrued) - - 1,70,900.76 - - 1,75,974.86 c) Valuation technique used to determine fair value:
Commercial paper and cash credit - - 16,767.58 - - 12,833.76 Specific valuation techniques used to determine fair value of financial instruments include:
Lease obligations - - 987.39 - - 986.23 i) For financial instruments other than at ii), iii) and iv) - the use of quoted market prices.
Trade payables - - 9,474.66 - - 9,598.10 ii) For investments in mutual funds - Closing NAV is used.
Payable for capital expenditure - - 14,302.94 - - 15,793.40
iii) For financial liabilities (vendor liabilities, debentures/bonds, foreign currency notes, domestic/foreign currency loans):
Other financial liabilities - - 5,683.48 - - 5,822.67 Discounted cash flow; appropriate market borrowing rate of the entity as of each balance sheet date used for
- - 2,18,116.81 - - 2,21,009.02 discounting.
iv) For financial assets (employee loans) - Discounted cash flow; appropriate market rate (SBI lending rate) as of each
b) Fair value hierarchy
balance sheet date used for discounting.
This section explains the judgements and estimates made in determining the fair values of the financial instruments that
d) Fair value of financial assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost
are (a) recognised and measured at fair value and (b) measured at amortised cost and for which fair values are disclosed
````` Crore
in the financial statements. To provide an indication about the reliability of the inputs used in determining fair value, the
Company has classified its financial instruments into the three levels prescribed under the Ind AS. An explanation of Particulars As at 31 March 2024 As at 31 March 2023
each level follows underneath the table. Level Carrying Fair Carrying Fair
````` Crore amount value amount
Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value- Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets
recurring fair value measurement as at 31 March 2024 Investments in subsidiary and joint venture companies 3 32,405.95 32,405.95 29,088.67 29,088.67
Financial assets: Other investments 3 525.00 525.00 575.00 575.00
Investments in quoted equity instruments - PTC India Ltd. 223.20 - - 223.20 Loans 3 1,216.51 1,172.19 1,545.92 1,504.80
Investments in unquoted equity instruments - - 3.78 3.78 Finance lease receivables 3 211.01 211.01 285.19 285.19
223.20 - 3.78 226.98 Claims recoverable 3 720.82 720.82 797.63 797.63
Trade receivables 3 28,515.62 28,515.62 28,428.42 28,428.42
````` Crore
Cash and cash equivalents 1 197.16 197.16 3.13 3.13
Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value- Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents 1 4,403.34 4,403.34 3,738.60 3,738.60
recurring fair value measurement as at 31 March 2023
Other financial assets 3 11,361.09 11,361.09 11,113.92 11,113.92
Financial assets:
79,556.50 79,512.18 75,576.48 75,535.36
Investments in quoted equity instruments - PTC India Ltd. 102.30 - - 102.30
Financial liabilities
Investments in unquoted equity instruments - - 3.78 3.78
Bonds/Debentures 1 - - - -
102.30 - 3.78 106.08
2 48,791.35 49,518.67 12,357.58 13,249.47
The Company has an established control framework with respect to the measurement of fair values. This includes a 3 2,545.80 3,106.35 45,202.44 46,398.53
valuation team that has overall responsibility for overseeing all significant fair value measurements and reports directly
Foreign currency notes 2 15,672.89 15,638.81 15,369.34 15,247.39
to the Director (Finance). The valuation team regularly reviews significant unobservable inputs and valuation adjustments.
3 4,590.70 4,418.02 4,554.79 4,203.16
If third party information, such as broker quotes or pricing services, is used to measure fair values, then the valuation
team assesses the evidence obtained from the third parties to support the conclusion that these valuations meet the Foreign currency loans 3 26,168.47 26,180.40 24,624.42 24,652.28
requirements of Ind AS, including the level in the fair value hierarchy in which the valuations should be classified. Significant Rupee term loans 2 - -
valuation issues are reported to the Company’s Audit Committee, if any. Rupee term loans 3 73,131.55 73,131.55 73,866.29 73,866.00
Fair values are categorised into different levels in a fair value hierarchy based on the inputs used in the valuation techniques Lease obligations 3 987.39 987.39 986.23 986.23
as follows. Borrowings - current 1 16,704.09 16,704.09 12,796.92 12,796.92
Level 1: Level 1 hierarchy includes financial instruments measured using quoted prices. This includes investments in Trade payables and payable for capital expenditure 2 - -
quoted equity instruments. Quoted equity instruments are valued using quoted prices on national stock exchange. Trade payables and payable for capital expenditure 3 23,777.60 23,773.75 25,391.50 25,362.09
Level 2: The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined using valuation Other financial liabilities 3 5,746.97 5,746.97 5,859.51 5,859.51
techniques which maximise the use of observable market data and rely as little as possible on entity specific estimates. 2,18,116.81 2,19,206.00 2,21,009.02 2,22,621.58
If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in level 2. This level
includes mutual funds which are valued using the closing NAV.
420 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 421
The carrying amounts of current trade receivables, current trade payables, payable for capital expenditure, investment methodologies for determination of the tariff for the purpose of sale of electricity. The tariff is based on allowable costs
in subsidiary and joint venture companies, cash and cash equivalents and other financial assets and liabilities are considered like interest, depreciation, operation & maintenance expenses, etc. with a stipulated return.
to be the same as their fair values, due to their short-term nature.
This form of rate regulation is known as cost-of-service regulations which provide the Company to recover its costs of
The carrying values for finance lease receivables approximates the fair value as these are periodically evaluated based providing the goods or services plus a fair return.
on credit worthiness of customer and allowance for estimated losses is recorded based on this evaluation. Also, carrying
(ii) Recognition and measurement
amount of claims recoverable approximates its fair value as these are recoverable immediately.
(a) As per the CERC Tariff Regulations, any gain or loss on account of exchange risk variation during the construction
The fair values for loans, borrowings, non-current trade payables and payable for capital expenditure were calculated
period shall form part of the capital cost till the declaration of Commercial Operation Date (COD) to be considered
based on cash flows discounted using a current discount rate. They are classified at respective levels based on availability
for calculation of tariff. The CERC during the past period in tariff orders for various stations has allowed exchange
of quoted prices and inclusion of observable/non observable inputs.
differences incurred during the construction period in the capital cost. Accordingly, exchange differences arising
during the construction period is within the scope of Ind AS 114.
69. Capital Management
Further, any loss or gain on account of exchange differences towards interest payment and loan repayment in respect
The Company’s objectives when managing capital are to:
of the foreign currency loans taken for construction of projects shall be recoverable from/payable to beneficiaries
- safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern, so that it can continue to provide returns for shareholders and on actual payment basis, as per the said Regulations. Accordingly, such exchange differences are also within the
benefits for other stakeholders and scope of Ind AS 114.Any loss or gain on account of foreign currency exchange differences towards interest payment
and loan repayment corresponding to the foreign currency loans taken for construction of the Stations shall be
- maintain an appropriate capital structure of debt and equity.
recoverable from/payable to beneficiaries on actual payment basis, as per the said regulation’
The Board of Directors has the primary responsibility to maintain a strong capital base and reduce the cost of capital
In view of the above, exchange differences arising from settlement/translation of monetary item denominated in
through prudent management in deployment of funds and sourcing by leveraging opportunities in domestic and
foreign currency to the extent recoverable from or payable to the beneficiaries in subsequent periods as per CERC
international financial markets so as to maintain investors, creditors & markets’ confidence and to sustain future
Tariff Regulations are recognized on an undiscounted basis as ‘Regulatory deferral account debit/credit balance’ by
development of the business. The Board of Directors monitors the return on capital, which the Company defines as
credit/debit to ‘Net Movements in Regulatory deferral account balances’ and adjusted from the year in which the
returns from operating activities divided by total shareholders’ equity deployed in operating activities. The Board of
same becomes recoverable from or payable to the beneficiaries. Accordingly, an amount of (-) ````` 1,262.44 crore for
Directors also monitors the level of dividends to equity shareholders in line with the dividend distribution policy of the
the year ended as at 31 March 2024 has been accounted for as ‘Regulatory deferral account debit balance’ (31
Company.
March 2023: (-) ` 960.93 crore accounted as ‘Regulatory deferral account debit balance’). Further, an amount of
Under the terms of major borrowing facilities, the Company is required to comply with the following financial covenants: ` 51.20 crore (31 March 2023: ` 52.01 crore) has been realized/recognized during the year.
(i) Total liability to net worth ranges between 2:1 to 3:1.(ii) Ratio of EBITDA to interest expense shall not at any time be (b) Revision of pay scales of employees of PSEs w.e.f. 1 January 2017 has been implemented based on the guidelines
less than 1.75 : 1.(iii) Debt service coverage ratio not less than 1.10:1 (in case of foreign currency borrowings). issued by Department of Public Enterprises (DPE). The guidelines provide payment of superannuation benefits @
30% of basic + DA to be provided to the employees of CPSEs which includes gratuity at the enhanced ceiling of `
There have been no breaches in the financial covenants of any interest bearing borrowings.
0.20 crore from the existing ceiling of ` 0.10 crore. As per Proviso 8(3) of Terms and Conditions of Tariff Regulations
The Company monitors capital, using a medium term view of three to five years, on the basis of a number of financial 2014 applicable for the period 2014-19, truing up exercise in respect of Change in Law or compliance of existing law
ratios generally used by industry and by the rating agencies. The Company is not subject to externally imposed capital will be taken up by CERC. The increase in gratuity limit from ` 0.10 crore to ` 0.20 crore falls under the category of
requirements. ‘Change in law’ and a regulatory asset has been created. The Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972 has since been amended
and the ceiling has been increased to ` 0.20 crore.
The Company monitors capital using gearing ratio which is net debt divided by total equity. Net debt comprises of non-
current borrowings (including current maturities and interest accrued there on) and current borrowings less cash and Considering the methodology followed by the CERC for allowing impact of the previous pay revision, various tariff
cash equivalents. Equity includes equity share capital and reserves that are managed as capital. The gearing ratio at the orders issued by the CERC under Regulations, 2014 and the above-mentioned provision related to the change in law
end of the reporting period was as follows: of CERC Tariff Regulations, 2014, a regulatory asset has been created upto 31 March 2019 (Regulatory deferral
````` Crore account debit balance) towards the increase in O&M expenditure due to the pay revision. This was taken up with
Particulars As at As at CERC through truing up tariff petition. CERC has been allowing the same progressively and during the year, the
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 expenditure has been allowed in respect of few stations and accordingly an amount of ````` 108.71 crore (31 March
2023: ‘ 94.56 crore) has been adjusted and an amount of ````` 6.56 crore (31 March 2023: ` 0.49 crore) has been
Borrowings (including interest accrued) 1,87,604.85 1,88,771.78
reversed. Balance orders are expected in the coming years.
Less: Cash and cash equivalents 197.16 3.13
(c) CERC Regulations provide that deferred tax liability upto 31 March 2009 shall be recovered from the beneficiaries as
Net Debt 1,87,407.69 1,88,768.65
and when the same gets materialized. Further, for the period commencing from 1 April 2014, CERC Tariff Regulations
Total Equity 1,49,885.02 1,38,889.88 provide for grossing up of the return on equity based on effective tax rate for the financial year based on the actual tax
paid during the year on the generation income. The Company has recognised a regulatory deferral account debit
Net Debt to Equity Ratio 1.25 1.36
balance for such deferred tax liabilities (net) in the financial statements. Regulatory deferral account debit balance for
deferred tax liability for the period commencing from 1 April 2014 will be reversed in future years when the related
70. Disclosure as per Ind AS 114, ‘Regulatory Deferral Accounts’
deferred tax liability forms part of current tax. Accordingly, an amount of ````` 2,808.05 crore (31 March 2023: ` 1,650.50
(i) Nature of rate regulated activities crore) for the year ended 31 March 2024 has been accounted for as ‘Regulatory deferral account debit balance’.
The Company is mainly engaged in generation and sale of electricity. The price to be charged by the Company for (d) The petition filed by the Company before CERC for reimbursement of the expenditure on transportation of ash, was
electricity sold to its beneficiaries is determined by the CERC which provides extensive guidance on the principles and favourably considered by CERC vide order dated 5 November 2018 and it was allowed to reimburse the actual
422 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 423
additional expenditure incurred towards transportation of ash in terms of MOEF notification under change in law, 71. Disclosure as per Ind AS 115, ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’
as additional O&M expenses, w.e.f. 25 January 2016 subject to prudence check. Keeping in view the above, regulatory
I. Nature of goods and services
asset was created towards ash transportation expenses in respect of stations where there was shortfall in revenue
from sale of ash over and above ash transportation expenses till 2021-22. CERC vide order dated 28 October 2022 The revenue of the Company comprises of income from energy sales, sale of energy through trading, consultancy and
has allowed provisional monthly billing of Ash transportation expenditure from 1 April 2022 onwards and other services. The following is a description of the principal activities:
reimbursement of expenditure already incurred from 1 April 2019 till 31 March 2022. An amount of ````` 4.75 crore (31
(a) Revenue from energy sales
March 2023: ` 90.18 crore) has been adjusted/realised based on orders received from CERC during the year relating
to period prior to 1 April 2019. Balance amount of ` 68.36 crore (31 March 2023: ` 73.11 crore) shall be reversed / The major revenue of the Company comes from energy sales. The Company sells electricity to bulk customers,
adjusted upon receipt of tariff orders / true-up orders from CERC. mainly electricity utilities owned by State Governments as well as private Discoms operating in States. Sale of electricity
is generally made pursuant to long-term Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) entered into with the beneficiaries.
(iii) Risks associated with future recovery/reversal of regulatory deferral account balances:
Below are the details of nature, timing of satisfaction of performance obligations and significant payment terms
(i) demand risk due to changes in consumer attitudes, the availability of alternative sources of supply(ii) regulatory risk
under contracts for energy sales:
on account of changes in regulations and submission or approval of a rate-setting application or the entity’s
assessment of the expected future regulatory actions(iii) other risks including currency or other market risks, if any Product/ Nature, timing of satisfaction of performance obligations and significant payment terms
Service
(iv) Reconciliation of the carrying amounts:
Energy sales The Company recognises revenue from contracts for energy sales over time as the customers
The regulated assets/liability recognized in the books to be recovered from or payable to beneficiaries in future periods simultaneously receive and consume the benefits provided by the Company. The tariff for
are as follows: computing revenue from energy sales is determined in terms of CERC Regulations as notified
a) Regulatory deferral account debit and credit balances - Note 22 and Note 39 from time to time. The amount of revenue recognised for energy sales is adjusted for variable
consideration, wherever applicable, which are estimated based on the historical data available
The regulatory assets recognized in the books to be recovered from the beneficiaries in future periods are as follows:
with the Company. The amounts are billed on a monthly basis and are payable within contractually
````` Crore agreed credit period. In case of power station which are not governed by CERC tariff regulations,
revenue is recognized based on agreement entered with beneficiaries.
Particulars For the year For the year
ended ended (b) Revenue from energy trading, consultancy and other services
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
(i) Sale of Energy through trading
A. Opening balance 11,961.97 12,822.88
The Company is purchasing power from the developers and selling it to the Discoms on principal to principal basis.
B. Additions during the year 1,539.05 (479.48)
Below are the details of nature, timing of satisfaction of performance obligations and significant payment terms
C. Amount realized/recognized during the year (164.67) (236.75)
under contracts for sale of energy through trading:
D. Regulatory deferral account balances recognized in 1,374.38 (716.23)
the statement of profit and loss (B+C) Product/ Nature, timing of satisfaction of performance obligations and significant payment terms
Service
E. Adjustments during the year (206.86) (144.68)
Sale of energy The Company recognises revenue from contracts for sale of energy through trading over time as
F. Closing balance (A+D+E) 13,129.49 11,961.97
through the customers simultaneously receive and consume the benefits provided by the Company. The
b) Net movements in regulatory deferral account balances [I] trading tariff for computing revenue from sale of energy through trading is determined as per the terms
of the agreements. The amount of revenue recognised is adjusted for variable consideration,
````` Crore
wherever applicable, which are estimated based on the historical data available with the Company.
Particulars For the year For the year
The amounts are billed on a monthly basis and are payable within contractually agreed credit
ended ended
period.
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
(ii) Consultancy and other services
Exchange differences (1,262.44) 960.93
The Company undertakes consultancy and turnkey project contracts for domestic and international clients in the
Pay Revision (6.56) (0.49)
different phases of power plants viz. engineering, project management & supervision, construction management,
Deferred tax 2,808.05 1,650.50
operation & maintenance of power plants, research & development, management consultancy etc.
Ash transportation cost - (3,090.42)
Sub total (i) 1,539.05 (479.48)
Amount realized/ recognized during the year (ii) (164.67) (236.75)
Net movement in regulatory deferral account balances (i)+(ii) 1,374.38 (716.23)
c) Tax on net movements in regulatory deferral account balances [II] 240.13 (125.14)
d) Total amount recognized in the statement of profit and loss during 1,134.25 (591.09)
the year [I-II]
The Company expects to recover the carrying amount of regulatory deferral account debit balance over the life of the
projects.
424 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 425
Below are the details of nature, timing of satisfaction of performance obligations and significant payment terms II. Disaggregation of revenue
under contracts for consultancy and other services:
In the following table, revenue is disaggregated by type of product and services, geographical market and timing of
Product/ Nature, timing of satisfaction of performance obligations and significant payment terms revenue recognition:
Service ````` Crore
Consultancy The Company recognises revenue from contracts for consultancy services over time as the Particulars Generation of energy Others Total
services customers simultaneously receive and consume the benefits provided by the Company. For the For the year ended For the year ended For the year ended
assets (e.g. deliverables, reports etc.) transferred under the contracts, the assets do not have
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March
alternative use to the Company and the Company has enforceable right to payment for
2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
performance completed to date. The revenue from consultancy services is determined as per the
Geographical markets
terms of the contracts. The amount of revenue recognised is adjusted for variable consideration,
wherever applicable, which are estimated based on the historical data available with the Company. India 1,56,175.40 1,57,782.01 4,160.27 3,906.57 1,60,335.67 1,61,688.58
The amounts are billed as per the terms of the contracts and are payable within contractually Outside India - - 0.84 0.99 0.84 0.99
agreed credit period. 1,56,175.40 1,57,782.01 4,161.11 3,907.56 1,60,336.51 1,61,689.57
Operation and The Company recognises revenue from contracts for operation and maintenance services over Timing of revenue recognition
maintenance time as the customers simultaneously receive and consume the benefits provided by the Company. Products and services 1,56,175.40 1,57,782.01 4,161.11 3,907.56 1,60,336.51 1,61,689.57
services The revenue from operation and maintenance services is determined as per the terms of the transferred over time
contracts. The amount of revenue recognised is adjusted for variable consideration, wherever
1,56,175.40 1,57,782.01 4,161.11 3,907.56 1,60,336.51 1,61,689.57
applicable, which are estimated based on the historical data available with the Company. The
amounts are billed as per the terms of the contracts and are payable within contractually agreed III. Reconciliation of revenue recognised with contract price:
credit period. ````` Crore
Deen Dayal The Company recognises revenue from work done under DDUGJY scheme over time as the assets Particulars For the year For the year
Upadhyay do not have alternative use to the Company and the Company has enforceable right to payment ended ended
Gramin Jyoti for performance completed to date. The revenue from DDUGJY scheme is determined as per the 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Yojna (DDUGJY terms of the contract. There is no component of variable consideration under the contract. The
Contract price 1,61,034.03 1,62,486.97
Scheme) amounts are billed as per the terms of the contracts and are payable within contractually agreed
Adjustments for:
credit period.
Rebates (697.52) (797.40)
Pradhan The Company recognises revenue from work done under SAUBHAGYA scheme at a point in time
Revenue recognised 1,60,336.51 1,61,689.57
Mantri Sahaj when the Company transfers control of goods and services under the contract to the customers.
Bijli Har Ghar The revenue from SAUBHAGYA scheme is determined as per the terms of the contracts. There is IV. Contract balances
Yojna no component of variable consideration under the contract. The amounts are billed as per the
Contract assets are recognised when there is excess of revenue earned over billings on contracts. Contract assets are
(SAUBHAGYA terms of the contracts and are payable within contractually agreed credit period.
transferred to trade receivables revenue when there is unconditional right to receive cash, and only passage of time is
Scheme)
required, as per contractual terms. The contract liabilities primarily relate to the advance consideration received from
(iii) Sale of captive coal to subsidiary company the customers which are referred as ‘advances from customers / payable to beneficiaries’.
The revenue also includes revenue from sale of captive coal to subsidiary. The following table provides information about trade receivables including unbilled revenue, contract assets and advances
from customers/payable to beneficiaries:
Below are the details of nature, timing of satisfaction of performance obligations and significant payment terms
````` Crore
under contracts for sale of captive coal:
Particulars As at 31 March 2024 As at 31 March 2023
Product/ Nature, timing of satisfaction of performance obligations and significant payment terms
Current Non-current Current Non-current
Service
Trade receivables including unbilled revenue 27,347.52 1,168.10 26,028.64 2,399.78
Sale of The Company recognises revenue from contracts for sale of captive coal to subsidiary company
captive coal when control of the goods is transferred to customers. The tariff for computing revenue from Contract assets 10,682.16 - 7,096.08 -
to subsidiary sale of captive coal to subsidiary company is determined in terms of CERC Tariff Regulations Advances from customers/payable to beneficiaries 1,713.82 - 1,708.39 -
company applicable for input price of coal from captive mines. The amounts are billed as and when goods
are transferred and are payable as per agreed procedures. The amount of revenue recognised from performance obligations satisfied (or partially satisfied) in previous periods,
due to change in transaction prices and other reasons is ````` 1,772.12 crore (31 March 2023 : ` 5,035.62 crore).
426 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 427
V. Transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations (ii) The following are the carrying amounts of lease liabilities recognised and the movements during the year :
````` Crore
Performance obligations related to sale of energy:
Particulars For the year For the year
Revenue from sale of energy is accounted for based on tariff rates approved by the CERC (except items indicated as
ended ended
provisional) as modified by the orders of Appellate Tribunal for Electricity to the extent applicable. In case of power
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
stations, where the tariff rates are yet to be approved/items indicated provisional by the CERC in their orders, provisional
Opening Balance 986.23 983.08
rates are adopted considering the applicable CERC Tariff Regulations. Revenue from sale of energy is recognized once
the electricity has been delivered to the beneficiary and is measured through a regular review of usage meters. - Additions in lease liabilities (12.84) 170.97
Beneficiaries are billed on a periodic and regular basis. Therefore, transaction price to be allocated to remaining - Interest cost during the year 69.48 72.62
performance obligations cannot be determined reliably for the entire duration of the contract.
- Payment of lease liabilities (55.48) (151.68)
Performance obligations related to other contracts: - Adjustment on account of transfer of RE assets to a subsidiary - (88.76)
For rest of the contracts, transaction price for remaining performance obligations amounts to ````` 484.21 crore (31 March Closing Balance 987.39 986.23
2023: ` 1,082.32 crore) which shall be received over the contract period in proportion of the work performed/services
Current 162.87 170.79
provided by the Company.
Non Current 824.52 815.44
VI. Practical expedients applied as per Ind AS 115:
(iii) Maturity Analysis of the lease liabilities:
a. The company has not disclosed information about remaining performance obligations that have original expected
````` Crore
duration of one year or less and where the revenue recognised corresponds directly with the value to the customer
of the entity’s performance completed to date. Contractual undiscounted cash flows As at As at
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
b. The Company does not expect to have any contracts where the period between the transfer of the promised goods
or services to the customer and payment by the customer exceeds one year. As a consequence, the Company has 3 months or less 141.40 139.00
not adjusted any of the transaction prices for the time value of money. The impact of subsequent modifications are 3-12 Months 51.53 62.42
duly recognized in the Statement of profit and loss.
1-2 Years 62.41 76.73
VII. The Company has not incurred any incremental costs of obtaining contracts with a customer and therefore, not recognised
2-5 Years 200.92 193.33
an asset for such costs.
More than 5 Years 2,250.26 2,268.85
72. Disclosure as per Ind AS 116 ‘Leases’ Total 2,706.52 2,740.33
(A) Company as Lessee
(iv) The following are the amounts recognised in Statement of profit and loss:
(i) The Company’s significant leasing arrangements are in respect of the following assets: ````` Crore
(a) Premises for residential use of employees, offices and guest houses/ transit camps on lease which are not non- Particulars For the year For the year
cancellable and are usually renewable on mutually agreeable terms. The company generally incurs amount on ended ended
improvements which are significant to the respective lease and hence the cancellable period of the lease during 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
which the company intends to continue considering the past experience / practice, is considered for the purpose of Depreciation and amortisation expense for right-of-use assets 276.28 277.29
determining the lease period.
Interest expense on lease liabilities 69.48 72.62
(b) The Company has taken electrical vehicles on operating lease for a period of six years, which can be further extended Expense relating to short-term leases 24.61 44.38
at mutually agreed terms. Lease rentals are subject to escalation of 10% per annum.
(v) The following are the amounts disclosed in the cash flow statement:
(c) A helicopter on wet lease basis.
````` Crore
(d) The Company has taken certain vehicles (other than electrical) on lease for a period of four years, which can be
Particulars For the year For the year
further extended at mutually agreed terms. There are no escalations in the lease rentals as per terms of the agreement.
ended ended
However, the Company has purchase option for such vehicles at the end of the lease term.
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
(e) The Company had entered into an agreement for movement of coal through inland waterways for one of its stations.
Cash Outflow from leases 80.09 196.06
As per the agreement, the operator was to design, finance, build, operate and maintain the unloading and material
handling infrastructure for 7 years after which it was to be transferred to the Company at 1/-. Refer Note no. 63
(iii)(b).
(f) The Company acquires land on leasehold basis for a period generally ranging from 25 years to 99 years from the
government authorities which can be renewed further based on mutually agreed terms and conditions. The leases
are non cancellable. These leases are capitalised at the present value of the total minimum lease payments to be
paid over the lease term. Future lease rentals are recognised as ‘Lease obligations’ at their present values. The
Right-of-use land is amortised considering the material accounting policies of the Company.
428 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 429
(B) Leases as lessor Undiscounted lease payments to be received on an annual basis for a minimum of each of the first five years and for the
remaining years:
a) Finance leases
````` Crore
The Company had classified the arrangement with its customer for Stage I of a power station in the nature of lease based
on the principles enunciated in Appendix C of Ind AS 17 - ‘Leases’ and accounted for as finance lease in accordance with Particulars As at As at
those principles. This arrangement continues to be classified as finance lease after transition to Ind AS 116 - ‘Leases’. 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Less than one year 3.91 19.58
The power purchase agreement with the beneficiary is for a period of twenty five years from the date of transfer and the
agreement may be mutually extended, renewed or replaced by another agreement on such terms and for such further Between one and two years - 3.91
period of time as the parties may mutually agree.
Between two and three years - -
The following are the amounts recognised in Statement of profit and loss: Beyond three years - -
````` Crore
Total 3.91 23.49
Particulars For the year For the year
ended ended 2. Land given on operating lease
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 (i) Investment Property
i) Finance income on the net investment in the lease 23.81 32.53
As per Business transfer agreement (BTA) entered into between the Company and NTPC Green Energy Ltd. (NGEL), a
ii) Income relating to variable lease payments not included in the 1,060.01 1,159.32 wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, freehold land pertaining to one of the RE stations (Bilhaur) admeasuring
measurement of the net investment in the lease 1202.55 acres shall remain with the Company and has been leased to NGEL at the mutually agreed terms and conditions.
Undiscounted lease payments to be received on an annual basis for a minimum of each of the first five years and for the As per agreement entered into between the Company and NTPC Renewable Energy Ltd. (NREL), a wholly owned subsidiary
remaining years: of NGEL, wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, freehold land pertaining to one of the stations (Barethi) admeasuring
````` Crore 2809.26 acres shall remain with the Company and has been leased to NREL at the mutually agreed terms and conditions.
Particulars As at As at The following are the amounts recognised in Statement of profit and loss in respect of the above stations:
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 ````` Crore
Less than one year 218.38 108.54 Particulars For the year For the year
Between one and two years - 215.90 ended ended
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Between two and three years - -
Lease Income 5.93 0.19
Between three and four years - -
Total minimum lease payments 218.38 324.44 Undiscounted lease payments to be received on an annual basis for a minimum of each of the first five years and for the
remaining years:
Less amounts representing unearned finance income 7.37 39.25
````` Crore
Present value of minimum lease payments 211.01 285.19
Particulars As at As at
b) Operating leases 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
1. The Company had classified the arrangement with its customer for one gas power station as lease based on the principles Less than one year 8.55 2.25
enunciated in Appendix C of Ind AS 17 and accounted for as operating lease in accordance with those principles. These Between one and two years 8.55 2.25
arrangements continue to be classified as operating lease after transition to Ind AS 116 ‘Leases’.
Between two and three years 8.55 2.25
(i) Gas Power Station
Between three and four years 8.55 2.25
PPA signed with the beneficiary on 6 January 1995 was operative for five years from the date of commercial operation of
Between four and five years 8.55 2.25
last unit of the station and may be mutually extended, renewed or replaced by another agreement on such terms and on
Beyond five years 186.00 40.73
such further period of time as the parties may mutually agree. As per the supplementary agreement dated 15 February
2013 the validity period is extended for a further period of 12 years from 1 March 2013. Total 228.75 51.98
The following are the amounts recognised in Statement of profit and loss in respect of the above stations:
(ii) Others
````` Crore
During the previous year and pursuant to BTA entered with NGEL, a wholly owned subsidiary of the company for transfer
Particulars For the year For the year
of fifteen RE assets, approval for assignment/novation of ROU land pertaining to Rojmal project and Jetsar project was
ended ended
yet to be consented by the lessor. Agreements have been entered to provide right to use ROU land pertaining to Rojmal
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
project and Jetsar project by NTPC to NGEL (sub-lease) for a period of 6 months for carrying out necessary activities
Lease Income 19.58 19.58 which has now been extended for another eleven months, as required to be carried out under BTA pending transfer of
Income relating to variable lease payments that do not depend on an index 84.12 84.80 leasehold rights etc. These lands were included as part of purchase consideration in BTA, though the asset is retained in
or a rate NTPC till receipt of consent for transfer. Accordingly, the ROU land admeasuring 863.27 acres of value ` 19.51 crore as at
430 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 431
28 February, 2023 along with corresponding lease liabilities pertaining to Rojmal project and Jetsar project were retained 75. Contingent liabilities, contingent assets and commitments
in NTPC, which shall be suitably adjusted once the transfer of leasehold rights as stated above is effected. Consequently,
A. Contingent liabilities
an amount of ````` 1.62 crore (31 March 2023: ` Nil) has been recognised as income during the year.
a. Claims against the Company not acknowledged as debts
73. Information on ‘Trade payables’ in respect of micro and small enterprises as at 31 March 2024 as required by
(i) Capital Works
Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013 and Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006
````` Crore
(MSMED Act), based on information available with the Company:
Particulars As at As at
````` Crore 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Particulars 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Claims by contractors under capital works 12,288.18 12,883.31
a) Amount due and remaining unpaid to any supplier:
Some of the contractors for supply and installation of equipment and execution of works at our projects have lodged
Principal amount 538.52 272.77
claims on the Company for the above amounts seeking enhancement of the contract price, revision of work schedule
Interest due thereon - - with price escalation, compensation for the extended period of work, idle charges etc. These claims are being contested
b) Amount of interest paid in terms of Section 16 of the MSMED Act - - by the Company as being not admissible in terms of the provisions of the respective contracts.
along-with the amount paid to the suppliers beyond the appointed
The Company is pursuing various options under the dispute resolution mechanism available in the contracts for settlement
day.
of these claims. It is not practicable to make a realistic estimate of the outflow of resources if any, for settlement of such
c) Amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in making - - claims pending resolution.
payment (which have been paid but beyond the appointed day during
The Company has made counter-claims against some of these claims which are before various authorities for adjudication
the year) but without adding the interest specified under the MSMED
/ settlement. It is impracticable to estimate the financial effect of the same as its receipt is dependent on the outcome
Act.
of the litigation / settlement which is not wholly within the control of the Company.
d) Amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid - -
(ii) Land compensation cases
e) Amount of further interest remaining due and payable even in the - -
````` Crore
succeeding years, until such date when the interest dues as above are
actually paid to the small enterprises, for the purpose of disallowances Particulars As at As at
as a deductible expenditure under Section 23 of MSMED Act. 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
The payment to the vendors are made as and when they are due, as per terms and conditions of respective contracts. Claims by land oustees 577.86 597.02
Amounts payable to Micro and Small enterprises, other than ‘Trade payables’ viz. liabilities for execution of capital
In respect of land acquired for the projects, the erstwhile land owners have claimed higher compensation before various
works, security deposit and other contractual obligations are included in ‘Other Financial Liabilities’ amounting to
authorities/courts which are yet to be settled. Against such cases, contingent liability of these amounts has been estimated.
````` 504.62 crore (31 March 2023: ` 291.74 crore).
(iii) Fuel suppliers
74. Disclosure as required by Schedule V of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, ````` Crore
2015: Particulars As at As at
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
A. Loans and advances in the nature of loans:
Claims towards grade slippages 1,817.81 1,638.71
1. To Subsidiary companies ````` Crore
Other claims 1,483.09 2,646.89
Name of the Company Outstanding balance as at Maximum amount outstanding
during the year ended Pending resolution of issues with the coal companies through AMRCD(Alternate Mechanism for Resolution of CPSE
Disputes), claims towards grade slippage pertaining to period prior to appointment of CIMFR(Central India Mining and
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Fuel Research) for joint sampling pursuant to tripartite agreement, has been estimated by the Company as contingent
Ratnagiri Gas and Power Private Ltd. 412.42 765.53 1,309.57 918.62
liability. Further, other claims represent claims made by fuel companies towards surface transportation charges, custom
duty on service margin on imported coal, take or pay claims of gas suppliers, etc., estimated by the Company as contingent
2. To Joint venture companies
liability.
Name of the Company Outstanding balance as at Maximum amount outstanding
The Company is pursuing with the fuel companies, related ministries and other options under the dispute resolution
during the year ended
mechanism available for settlement of these claims.
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
(iv) Others
National High Power Test Laboratory Private Ltd. - 18.40 18.40 18.40
````` Crore
3. To Firms/companies in which directors are interested : Nil Particulars As at As at
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
B. Investment by the loanee (as detailed above) in the shares of NTPC and its subsidiaries : Nil
Claims by government agencies / others 860.14 847.86
432 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 433
In respect of claims made by various State/Central Government departments/Authorities towards building permission (iii) CERC Tariff Regulations provide for levy of Late Payment Surcharge by generating company in case of delay in payment
fee, penalty on diversion of agricultural land to non-agricultural use, non agricultural land assessment tax, water royalty, by beneficiaries beyond specified number of days from the date of presentation of bill. However, in view of significant
other claims, etc. and by others, a contingent liability of the above amounts has been estimated. uncertainties in the ultimate collection of the said surcharge from some of the beneficiaries against partial bills as
estimated by the management, an amount of ````` 491.79 crore as on 31 March 2024 (31 March 2023: ` 534.63 crore)
(v) Possible reimbursement in respect of (i) to (iii) above
has not been recognised.
In respect of claims included in (i) and (ii) above, payments, if any, by the Company on settlement of the claims would be
C. Commitments
eligible for inclusion in the capital cost for the purpose of determination of tariff as per CERC Tariff Regulations subject
to prudence check by the CERC. In case of (iii), the estimated possible reimbursement by way of recovery through tariff a) Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital account and not provided for is as under:
as per Regulations is ````` 3,293.39 crore (31 March 2023: ` 4,225.77 crore). ````` Crore
b. Disputed tax matters Particulars As at As at
````` Crore 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Particulars As at As at Property, plant and equipment 61,237.68 41,154.11
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 Intangible assets 44.36 45.91
Tax matters before various authorities 1,706.73 1,304.26 Total 61,282.04 41,200.02
Disputed income tax/sales tax/excise and other tax matters are pending before various Appellate Authorities. Many of b) In respect of investments in subsidiary companies (including share application money pending allotment), the
these matters were adjudicated in favour of the Company but are disputed before higher authorities by the concerned Company has restrictions for their disposal as at 31 March 2024 as under:
departments. In respect of these disputed cases, the Company estimate possible reimbursement of ````` 431.85 crore (31
````` Crore
March 2023: ` 142.97 crore). The amount paid under dispute/adjusted by the authorities in respect of the cases amounts
to ````` 562.69 crore (31 March 2023: ` 762.45 crore). Name of the Subsidiary Period of restrictions for disposal of investments Amount invested
as per related agreements as at
c. Others
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
````` Crore
Bhartiya Rail Bijlee 5 years from the date of commercial operation 1,774.12 1,774.12
Particulars As at As at
Company Ltd. of the last unit of the project or till further date
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
as may be mutually agreed.
(i) Coal transportation [Refer Note 63(iii)(b)] 1,870.55 2,431.04
Patratu Vidyut Utpadan 5 years from the date of signing of agreement or 2,164.55 1,737.62
(ii) Others 3,442.28 1,820.36
Nigam Ltd. till the date of commercial operation of the last
Others include contingent liabilities disclosed on an estimated basis relating to likely claims that may arise in connection new unit of Phase-I, whichever is later.
with abandoned oil exploration activities, land use agreements, service tax reimbursements, stamp duty charges arising THDC India Ltd. Save and except with prior written consent of 7,500.00 7,500.00
out of merger, transfer of operations of subsidiary, etc. GOI, NTPC shall not take any action that may
result in shareholding in the subsidiary falling
Some of the beneficiaries have filed appeals against the tariff orders of the CERC. The amount of contingent liability in
below 51% and shall not take any action that
this regard is not ascertainable.
may result in the subsidiary ceasing to be a
In respect of the disputed cases at sl.no.(ii) above, the Company estimate possible reimbursement of ````` 1,128.85 crore government company.
(31 March 2023: ` 1,090.46 crore).
North Eastern Electric Save and except with prior written consent of 4,000.00 4,000.00
B. Contingent assets Power Corporation Ltd. GOI, NTPC shall not take any action that may
result in shareholding / or total voting power
(i) While determining the tariff for some of the Company’s power stations, CERC has disallowed certain capital
in the subsidiary falling below 51% and shall not
expenditure incurred by the Company. The Company aggrieved over such issues has filed appeals with the Appellate
take any action that may result in the subsidiary
Tribunal for Electricity (APTEL)/Hon’ble Supreme Court against the tariff orders issued by the CERC. Based on past
ceasing to be a government company. Further,
experience, the Company believes that a favourable outcome is probable. However, it is impracticable to estimate
NTPC shall continue to hold 100% of paid up
the financial effect of the same as its receipt is dependent on the outcome of the judgement.
capital and voting power in the subsidiary
(ii) Coal companies have disputed some of the grade slippages confirmed by CIMFR (third party sampler) in favour of till all amounts repayable under the loan
the Company and have approached referee challenging the CIMFR results. The referee results are binding on both agreement executed between the subsidiary
the parties. Considering the uncertainty involved in the outcome of referee results, the Company has not recognised and KfW are repaid.
claims arising out of favourable CIMFR results pending receipt of referee results challenged by the coal companies,
NTPC EDMC Waste 5 years from the date of incorporation (i.e. 01 0.15 0.15
considering the provisions of Ind AS 37. It is impracticable to estimate the financial effect of the same as its receipt
Solutions Pvt Ltd June 2020)
is dependent on the outcome of the referee results which is wholly not within the control of the Company. Not
Total 15,438.82 15,011.89
withstanding the above, the outcome of the referee results shall be dealt with as per the provisions of CERC Tariff
Regulations.
434 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 435
c) In respect of investments in joint venture companies (including share application money pending allotment), the d) In respect of other investments, the Company has restrictions for their disposal as at 31 March 2024 as under:
Company has restrictions for their disposal as at 31 March 2024 as under:
````` Crore
Name of the Joint Period of restrictions for disposal of investments Amount invested
Name of the Joint Period of restrictions for disposal of investments Amount invested
Venture Company as per related agreements as at
Venture Company as per related agreements as at
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Transformers and 3 years from the date of acquisition (i.e.19.06. 31.34 31.34
International Coal 5 years from the date of incorporation (i.e. 20.05. 1.40 1.40
Electricals Kerala Ltd. 2009) or upgradation capacity enhancement
Ventures Private Ltd. 2009) or till such time an undertaking for non-
scheme whichever is later or such later period
disposal of such share is given to FI/Banks for
as may be mutually agreed. Also refer Note 7 (g).
their assistance to the Company whichever is
NTPC BHEL Power 3 years from the date of completion of first EPC 50.00 50.00 later. Also refer Note 8 (c).
Projects Private Ltd. contract of single order value of not less than
Total 1.40 1.40
` 500 crore or till further such time as mutually
agreed. Also refer Note 7 (f). e) The Company has commitments of ````` 2,957.47 crore (31 March 2023: ` 2,931.63 crore) towards further investment
in the subsidiary companies as at 31 March 2024.
National High Power Test 5 years from the date of incorporation (i.e. 22.05. 48.80 30.40
Laboratory Private Ltd. 2009) or completion of project whichever is later. f) The Company has commitments of ````` 1,503.71 crore (31 March 2023: ` 1,143.96 crore) towards further investment
Also refer Note 7 (e). in the joint venture entities as at 31 March 2024.
CIL NTPC Urja Private Ltd. 5 years from the date of incorporation (i.e. 27.04. 0.08 0.08
g) The Company has commitments of bank guarantee of 0.50% of total contract price to be undertaken by NTPC-BHEL
2010) or commercial operation whichever is later. Power Projects Private Ltd. (a joint venture company) to a cumulative amount of ````` 75.00 crore (31 March 2023:
Trincomalee Power 12 years from the initial operation date. 15.64 15.64 ` 75.00 crore).
Company Ltd.
h) The Company has provided corporate guarantee for an amount of ````` 237.60 crore (31 March 2023: ` 237.60 crore)
Bangladesh-India 15 years from the date of commercial operation 1,324.02 1,162.02 for Patratu Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Ltd. (PVUNL) (a subsidiary company) in favor of Axis Bank for sanction of bank
Friendship Power date. guarantee issued to Ministry of Coal for performance security against the milestones of Banhardih coal mine
Company Private Ltd. development of PVUNL.
Hindustan Urvarak and (a) 5 years from the date of incorporation 2,642.99 2,295.95
i) The Company has agreed to provide borrowing support to NTPC Renewable Energy Limited (subsidiary of NTPC
Rasayan Ltd. (15.06.2016) or 2 years from commercial
Green Energy Limited which is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company) upto ````` 6,000.00 crore (31 March 2023:
operation date of any one of the proposed
` 6,000.00 crore) in the form of long term / short term loan, bank guarantee, corporate guarantee / comfort letter
projects at Sindri, Gorakhpur and Barauni or
to banks, etc., in case it is required by NTPC Renewable Energy Limited.
date of allotment of shares for first time,
whichever is later. j) The Company has agreed to provide sponsor undertaking to lenders for additional term loan upto ````` 1,908.38 crore
(31 March 2023: ` 1,908.38 crore) for implementation of various projects of Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited,
(b) As per Sponsors Support undertaking , NTPC
a Joint Venture Company.
shall jointly and severally with the other
sponsors provide additional funds to meet k) The Company has provided corporate guarantee to the extent of JPY 15 Billion equivalent to ````` 836.40 crore (31
all cost overrun incurred/to be incurred in March 2023 : ` Nil) for NTPC Renewable Energy Limited (subsidiary of NTPC Green Energy Limited which is a wholly
relation to the Project. Further, NTPC shall owned subsidiary of the Company) in favour of JBIC (Japan Bank for International Co-operation) for the loan extended
jointly with the other sponsors, retain 51% with a door to door maturity of 15 years.
of total equity share capital of the JV and
l) Outstanding bank guarantees amounting to ````` 132.80 crore (31 March 2023: ` 570.10 crore) have been issued by
management control until the final settle-
banks on behalf of the Company in favour of various State and Central authorities (beneficiaries) mainly towards
ment date of the loan facility (door to door
performance guarantee for completion of various RE projects. These RE projects were transferred to NGEL, a wholly
tenure of 15 years). (Also refer Note 7(h))
owned subsidiary of the Company, as at 28 February 2023 pursuant to a BTA entered in the previous year. These
Jhabua Power Limited 3 years from the date of transfer (05.09.2022) 325.00 325.00 bank guarantees are being serviced by the Company till the expiry of respective bank guarantees.
Total 4,437.87 3,910.43
m) Company’s commitment towards the minimum work programme in respect of oil exploration activities of joint
operations has been disclosed in Note 65.
436 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 437
76. Additional Regulatory Information ii) The company has investment property and fair valuation of investment property has been carried out. Refer Note 4.
i) Title deeds of Immovable Properties not held in name of the Company as at 31 March 2024 iii) During the year the company has not revalued any of its Property, plant and equipment.
Item category Description Gross Title Deeds Whether title deed Property held since Reason for iv) During the year, the company has not revalued any of its Intangible assets.
Balance sheet of Item of Carrying Held in the holder is a promoter, which date not being
v) The company has not granted any loans or advances to promoters, directors, KMP’s and the related parties that are
Property Value name of director or relative# held in the
repayable on demand or without specifying any terms or period of repayment.
(````` crore) of promoter*/director name of the
or employee of company vi) (a) Capital-Work-in Progress (CWIP) - Ageing Schedule as at 31 March 2024
promoter/ director ````` Crore
Property, plant Land - 14.94 Large number No 2023-24 Capital-Work-in Progress (CWIP) Amount in CWIP for a period of Total
and equipment Freehold 1,192.57 of land 2022-23 Less than 1-2 years 2-3 years More than
7.63 oustees and 2021-22 1 year 3 years
State
16.14 2020-21 Projects in progress 12,446.77 10,166.63 8,773.46 15,648.63 47,035.49
authorities
18.31 2019-20 Projects temporarily suspended* - 24.09 - 94.23 118.32
126.24 2016-17 to 2018-19 * Fully provided for.
647.77 2011-12 to 2015-16
Capital-Work-in Progress (CWIP) - Ageing Schedule as at 31 March 2023
154.18 Prior to 2011-12
````` Crore
Land - Right 186.31 2022-23
Capital-Work-in Progress (CWIP) Amount in CWIP for a period of Total
of Use 20.83 2020-21
Less than 1-2 years 2-3 years More than
20.83 2019-20 1 year 3 years
168.98 2016-17 to 2018-19
Projects in progress 13,048.38 11,627.24 8,666.03 28,283.91 61,625.56
173.05 2011-12 to 2015-16
Projects temporarily suspended 24.09 - - 94.23 118.32
244.19 Prior to 2011-12
Building 4.97 Prior to 2011-12 vi) (b) Capital-Work-in Progress (CWIP) - Completion schedule for projects overdue or cost overruns as compared to
original plan as on 31 March 2024
Title deeds of Immovable Properties not held in name of the Company as at 31 March 2023
````` Crore
Item category Description Gross Title Deeds Whether title deed Property held since Reason for
Name of the project To be completed in Total
Balance sheet of Item of Carrying Held in the holder is a promoter, which date not being
Less than 1-2 years 2-3 years More than
Property Value name of director or relative# held in the
1 year 3 years
(` crore) of promoter*/director name of the
or employee of company Upto 31 1 April 2025 to 1 April 2026 to Beyond
promoter/ director March 2025 31 March 2026 31 March 2027 1 April 2027
Property, plant Land - 1,196.04 Large number No 2022-23 The North Karanpura TPP (1X660 MW) 3,730.97 - - - 3,730.97
and equipment Freehold 7.63 of land 2021-22 Company is Barh-I TPP (1X660 MW) 5,557.38 - - - 5,557.38
oustees and taking
21.69 2020-21 Tapovan HEP (4X130 MW) - 6,265.86 - - 6,265.86
State appropriate
23.43 2019-20
authorities steps for Rammam Hydro Electric (3X40 MW) - - - 905.43 905.43
123.76 2016-17 to 2018-19
completion
Chatti Bariatu Coal Mining Project 574.76 - - - 574.76
674.61 2011-12 to 2015-16 of legal
Kerandari Coal Mining Project - 1,150.54 - - 1,150.54
171.34 Prior to 2011-12 formalities.
Badam Coal Mining Project - - 47.92 - 47.92
Land - Right 121.04 2022-23
of Use 0.46 2020-21 Anta Solar (90 MW) 399.60 - - - 399.60
20.83 2019-20 Rihand Solar (20 MW) 34.35 - - - 34.35
168.98 2016-17 to 2018-19 Solapur Solar (13 MW) 30.94 - - - 30.94
173.63 2011-12 to 2015-16
Nokh Solar (735 MW) 918.22 - - - 918.22
244.09 Prior to 2011-12
Building 4.97 Prior to 2011-12
438 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 439
Capital-Work-in Progress (CWIP) - Completion schedule for projects overdue or cost overruns as compared to original xi) Relationship with Struck off Companies
plan as on 31 March 2023
(a) Payables / receivables
````` Crore
Name of struck off Company Nature of Balance Balance Relationship CIN
Name of the project To be completed in Total
transactions outstanding outstanding with the
Less than 1-2 years 2-3 years More than with struck- as at as at struck off
1 year 3 years off Company 31 March 31 March company
Upto 31 1 April 2024 to 1 April 2025 to Beyond 2024 2023
March 2024 31 March 2025 31 March 2026 1 April 2026 (````` crore) (````` crore)
North Karanpura TPP - 7,460.83 - - 7,460.83 Aradhya Construction Private Limited Receivables # # Contractor U45200BR2013PTC020295
Shiv Singh Amar Singh And Company Receivables - 1.38 Contractor U70200DL1985PTC022577
Barh-I TPP - 11,862.70 - - 11,862.70
Private Limited
Tapovan HEP - 5,817.62 - - 5,817.62
Ganga Mechanical works Pvt Ltd Receivables 0.05 0.05 Contractor U45201DL2003PTC119275
Rammam Hydro Electric - - - 785.14 785.14
Hello Marketing Pvt. Ltd Receivables # # Contractor U67190DL1993PTC053859
Telangana-I TPP 11,262.65 - - - 11,262.65 S S Builders (India) Pvt Ltd Receivables # # Contractor U45201DL1981PTC011552
Talaipalli Coal Mining Project 939.61 - - - 939.61 Shiva Shakti Services Pvt. Ltd. Receivables # # Contractor U74992DL1995PTC072519
Chatti Bariatu Coal Mining Project - 463.31 - - 463.31 Brindavan Projects Ltd Payables 0.01 0.01 Contractor U45200TG1994PLC018506
Eco E-Waste Recyclers India Payables # # Contractor U37200KA2010PTC052547
Kerandari Coal Mining Project - - 831.16 - 831.16
Private Limited
Badam Coal Mining Project - - - 41.58 41.58
Go Green Buildtech Pvt. Ltd. Payables # # Contractor U45400DL2014PTC264520
Innutech Web Solutions Pvt Ltd Payables # # Contractor U72200DL2010PTC200692
vii) (a) Intangible assets under development - Ageing Schedule as at 31 March 2024
````` Crore Leonard Exports Private Limited Payables 0.10 0.10 Contractor U74900WB2009PTC133430
Neway Engineers Msw Pvt. Ltd. Payables 0.18 0.18 Contractor U74900TN2015PTC100484
Intangible assets under development Amount in CWIP for a period of Total
Prava Trading Corporation (India) Payables 0.05 0.05 Contractor U51909WB2013PTC197297
Less than 1-2 years 2-3 years More than
Private Limited
1 year 3 years
U K Construction Pvt Ltd Payables - # Contractor U00501BR1986PTC002490
Projects in progress 0.21 1.81 1.17 - 3.19
Hanothia Industries Ltd. Payables # # Contractor U27109TG2005PTC046327
Projects temporarily suspended - - - - -
Hn18 Health Services Pvt Ltd Payables # # Contractor U74900KA2015PTC080531
M M Raj Travels Private Limited Payables # # Contractor U34101UP1996PTC020425
Intangible assets under development - Ageing Schedule as at 31 March 2023
` Crore Pumos Lighting Pvt Ltd Payables - # Contractor U31503DL2012PTC240358
Intangible assets under development Amount in CWIP for a period of Total Timetech Enterprises Pvt Ltd Payables 0.01 0.01 Contractor U51109DL1989PTC038628
Less than 1-2 years 2-3 years More than Uniteam Pvt Ltd Payables - # Contractor U29253WB2011PTC169264
1 year 3 years A.S. Builders Private Limited. Payables 0.01 0.01 Contractor U45201DL1995PTC071401
Projects in progress 5.85 3.65 5.14 30.28 44.92 Asian Marketing Co Ltd Payables # # Contractor U51909WB1951PLC019996
Burn Standard Co. Ltd. Payables 0.03 0.03 Contractor U51909WB1976GOI030797
Projects temporarily suspended - - - - -
Chandel Construction Private Limited Payables 0.06 0.10 Contractor U45202BR2019PTC043334
vii) (b) Intangible assets under development - Completion schedule for projects overdue or cost overruns as compared to Hemantbirla Construction(I)Pvt Ltd Payables # # Contractor U45309MP2021PTC054984
original plan as on 31 March 2024 is ````` Nil (31 March 2023: ` Nil) Rohtas Security & Intelligence Payables # # Contractor U74920BR2008PTC013425
Services Pvt. Ltd.
viii) No proceedings have been initiated or pending against the company under the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act,1988.
Sankat Mochan Construction Pvt Ltd Payables 0.01 0.01 Contractor U45200BR2003PTC010344
ix) The quarterly returns / statement of current assets filed by the company with banks / financial institutions are in agreement
Titan Televentures Pvt. Ltd. Payables # # Contractor U51909UP2004PTC029354
with the books of accounts.
Binary Solutions Pvt.Ltd. Payables # # Contractor U72200TG1999PTC032912
x) The company has not been declared as a wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or any other lender.
Devidayal & Mahindra Cables Payables - - Contractor U31300DL1989PTC035357
Private Limited
Express Lifts Ltd Payables 0.05 0.05 Contractor U74999GJ1997PTC033243
G G Tronics India Pvt Ltd Payables # # Contractor U14200KA2010PTC052244
Gill Buildcon Pvt.Ltd. Payables 1.20 - Contractor U45400DL2007PTC162054
Great Eastern Trading Co. Payables # # Contractor U51109WB1950PLC018863
440 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 441
Name of struck off Company Nature of Balance Balance Relationship CIN Name of struck off Company Nature of Nature of Nature of Remarks CIN
transactions outstanding outstanding with the transactions Debentures Debentures
with struck- as at as at struck off with struck- held held
off Company 31 March 31 March company off Company 31.03.2024 31.03.2023
2024 2023 Vaishak Shares Limited Debentures 1 1 Debenture holders U85110KA1994PLC015178
(````` crore) (````` crore) Kothari Intergroup Ltd. held by 11 11 Debenture holders U51909KA1984PLC005952
R V Briggs & Company Pvt Ltd Payables - - Contractor U13209WB1993PTC057855 struck off
Ganapati Infin Pvt Ltd 40 40 Debenture holders U70109PB2011PTC034996
company
S V Network Technologies India Pvt Payables 0.10 0.10 Contractor U72200TG2006PTC051972 Ritrishi Finvest Private Limited 214 214 Debenture holders U99999MH1995PTC095593
Sagar Hospitals Private Limited Payables - - Contractor U85110TG1988PTC008174 4A Strategies Private Ltd 3,000 3,000 Debenture holders U17231KA1997PTC023027
Vagjra Hotline Power Service Pvt Ltd Payables - - Contractor U40108AP2009PTC064430 Bhomiya Vyapaar Pvt. Ltd 2,000 2,000 Debenture holders U51109WB1994PTC062535
Yugesh and Chandan Construction Payables 0.02 0.02 Contractor U45200BR2015PTC023996
Clairsol Systems Private Limited 320 320 Debenture holders U72200DL2001PTC110910
Private limited
Diwansons Holding and
Gemindiajobsolutions Private Ltd. Payables # - Contractor U72900UP2020PTC138736 Consultancy Pvt Ltd 956 956 Debenture holders U65990MH1984PTC032744
# Individual Amount recoverable/payable is less than ` 50,000/- and sum of all recoverable cases amounts to ````` 44,458.40/- Dreams Comtrade Private Limited 1,686 1,686 Debenture holders U67190MH2012PTC226217
(31 March 2023- ` 46,403.90) and sum of all payable cases amounts to ````` 3,69,988.71/- (31 March 2023 - ` 4,02,619.57/-) Jewel Strips Pvt Ltd 823 823 Debenture holders U27200MH1993PTC073648
Kuber World Private Limited 1 1 Debenture holders U74899DL1973PTC006817
b) Shares held by struck off companies
Rokad Investments Private Limited. 30 30 Debenture holders U65900MH1997PTC108580
Name of struck off Company Nature of Nature of Nature of Remarks CIN
Telelink Securities & FinanceLtd 544 544 Debenture holders U67120MH1997PLC109896
transactions equity equity
with struck- shares held shares held V. M. Fiscal Services Pvt. Ltd. 50 50 Debenture holders U65993TN1991PTC021278
off Company 31.03.2024 31.03.2023 Vivid Finance and Holdings Pvt Ltd 1,428 1,428 Debenture holders U65990MH1988PTC045875
Stalag Investments & Shares held 60 60 Equity share holders U67120MH1987PTC042898 VMS Consultants Pvt. Ltd. 125 125 Debenture holders U51909WB1992PTC055925
Management Services Pvt Ltd by struck off
company xii) The company has no cases of any charges or satisfaction yet to be registered with ROC beyond the statutory time limits.
Tradeshare Financial Services 120 120 Equity share holders U67120KL2008PTC023516
Management Services Pvt Ltd
xiii) The provisions of clause (87) of section 2 of the Act read with the Companies (Restriction on number of Layers) Rules,
Dige And Associates Investment 34 34 Equity share holders U00893PN2006PTC022295 2017 are not applicable to the company as per Section 2(45) of the Companies Act, 2013.
Management Services Pvt Ltd
xiv)Disclosure of Ratios
Canny Securities Pvt Ltd 1 1 Equity share holders U67120KA1995PTC018357
Ratio Numerator Denominator FY 2023-24 FY 2022-23 % Variance Reason for
Satvik Financial Services Ltd. 24 24 Equity share holders U67100MH2009PLC196964
Variance more
Vaishak Shares Limited 1 1 Equity share holders U85110KA1994PLC015178
than 25%
Kothari Intergroup Ltd. 13 13 Equity share holders U51909KA1984PLC005952
Current ratio Current Assets Current Liabilities 0.92 0.91 1.26%
Dreams Broking Private Limited 6 6 Equity share holders U67190MH2012PTC226215 Debt-equity ratio Paid-up debt capital Shareholder’s Equity 1.24 1.34 -7.87%
Ganapati Infin Pvt Ltd 8 48 Equity share holders U70109PB2011PTC034996 (Non current (Total Equity)
Shree Anekant Marketing Pvt Ltd 10 10 Equity share holders U51900WB1995PTC106659 borrowings+Current
borrowings)
Data Nova India Private Limited 1,000 1,000 Equity share holders U72200PN1996PTC098577
Debt service coverage Profit for the year+ Finance Costs + 1.56 1.29 20.76%
Ritrishi Finvest Private Limited 256 256 Equity share holders U99999MH1995PTC095593
ratio Finance costs+ lease payments+
Depreciation and Scheduled principal
c) Debentures held by struck off companies
amortiation expenses repayments of non
Name of struck off Company Nature of Nature of Nature of Remarks CIN
+Exceptional items current borrowings
transactions Debentures Debentures
Return on equity Profit for the year Average 12.52% 12.85% -2.59%
with struck- held held
ratio (%) Shareholder’s Equity
off Company 31.03.2024 31.03.2023
Inventory turnover Revenue from Average Inventory 10.43 14.01 -25.55% Mainly due to
Stalag Investments & Management Debentures 50 50 Debenture holders U67120MH1987PTC042898
ratio operations increase in average
Services Pvt Ltd held by
inventory as a result
struck off
Tradeshare Financial Services Pvt Ltd 100 100 Debenture holders U67120KL2008PTC023516 of increased closing
company
Dige And Associates Investment 29 29 Debenture holders U00893PN2006PTC022295 inventory as at
Consultants Pvt Ltd 31 March 2024
Canny Securities Pvt Ltd 1 1 Debenture holders U67120KA1995PTC018357
Satvik Financial Services Ltd. 20 20 Debenture holders U67100MH2009PLC196964
442 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 443
Ratio Numerator Denominator FY 2023-24 FY 2022-23 % Variance Reason for xvi) The Company has not advanced or loaned or invested any fund to any entity (Intermediaries) with the understanding
Variance more that the Intermediary shall lend or invest in party identified by or on behalf of the Company (Ultimate Beneficiaries).
than 25% The Company has not received any fund from any party with the understanding that the Company shall whether,
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other entities identified by or on behalf of the Company (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”)
Trade receivables Revenue from Average trade 5.69 5.34 6.61%
turnover ratio operations receivables or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
Trade payables Total Purchases Closing Trade 11.92 12.01 -0.78% xvii) The Company has not traded or invested in Crypto currency or Virtual Currency during the financial year.
turnover ratio (Fuel Cost + Other Payables
xviii)The Company does not have any transaction which is not recorded in the books of accounts that has been surrendered
Expenses+Closing
or disclosed as income during the year in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961.
Inventory-Opening
Inventory)
77. Corporate Social Responsibility Expenses (CSR)
Net capital turnover Revenue from Working Capital+ 9.87 15.07 -34.49% Mainly due to
ratio operations current maturities increase in current As per Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with guidelines issued by Department of Public Enterprises, GOI,
of non current maturity of non the Company is required to spend, in every financial year, at least two per cent of the average net profits of the Company
borrowings current borrowings made during the three immediately preceding financial years in accordance with its CSR Policy. The details of CSR
as compared to the expenses for the year are as under:
previous year ````` Crore
Net profit ratio (%) Profit for the year Revenue from 11.16% 10.50% 6.29% Particulars For the year For the year
operations
ended ended
Return on capital Earning before Capital Employed(i) 9.07% 9.39% -3.40% 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
employed (%) interest and taxes
A. Amount required to be spent during the year
Return on investment(ii)- {MV(T1) – MV(T0) – {MV(T0) + Sum 127.33% 10.70% 1090.11% Due to difference in
(i) Gross amount (2% of average net profit as per Section 135 of 337.98 310.00
Investments in Quoted Sum [C(t)]} [W(t) * C(t)]} opening and closing
1 2 Companies Act, 2013)
Equity (%) market price of the
listed investments in (ii) Surplus arising out of CSR projects - -
the comparitive (iii) Set off available from previous year 225.19 219.87
periods.
(iv) Total CSR obligation for the year [(i)+(ii) -(iii)] 112.79 90.13
Return on investment(ii)- {MV(T1) – MV(T0) – {MV(T0) + Sum 15.67% 10.95% 43.11% Due to variation in
B. Amount approved by the Board to be spent during the year 200.57 315.32
Investments in Sum [C(t)]} [W(t) * C(t)]} net worth of the
1 2
Subsidiaries (%) subsidiaries in the C. Amount spent during the year on:
comparative periods a) Construction/acquisition of any asset - -
Return on investment(ii)- {MV(T1) – MV(T0) – {MV(T0) + Sum 8.50% 8.50% 0.00% b) On purposes other than (a) above 200.57 315.32
debentures in joint Sum [C(t)]} [W(t) * C(t)]}
1 2 Total 200.57 315.32
venture (%)
D. Set off available for succeeding years 87.78 225.19
(i) Capital Employed= Tangible Net Worth + Total Debt + Deferred Tax Liabilities
E. Amount unspent during the year - -
(ii) Return on Investment where
Note:- The set off available in the succeeding years is not recognised as an asset as a matter of prudence, considering the
T1 = End of time period uncertainty involved in the adjustment of the same in future years.
T0 = Beginning of time period i) Amount spent during the year ended 31 March 2024:
t = Specific date falling between T1 and T0 Particulars In cash Yet to be paid in cash Total
MV(T1) = Market Value at T1 a) Construction/acquisition of any asset - - -
b) On purposes other than (a) above 187.03 13.54 200.57
MV(T0) = Market Value at T0
C(t ) = Cash inflow, cash outflow on specific date including dividend received Amount spent during the year ended 31 March 2023:
1
C(t ) = Cash inflow, cash outflow on specific date excluding dividend received Particulars In cash Yet to be paid in cash Total
2
a) Construction/acquisition of any asset - - -
W(t) = Weight of the net cash flow (i.e. either net inflow or net outflow) on day ‘t’, calculated as [T1 – t] / T1
b) On purposes other than (a) above 301.73 13.59 315.32
xv) There is no scheme of Amalgamation approved by the competent authority during the year in terms of sections 230 to
237 of the Companies Act,2013.
444 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 445
ii) Details of contribution to a trust controlled by the company in relation to CSR expenditure: INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
````` Crore
Particulars For the year For the year To
ended ended
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 The Members of NTPC Limited
Contribution given to NTPC Foundation 7.17 9.45
Report on the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements
iii) Break-up of the CSR expenses under major heads is as under:
````` Crore
Opinion
Particulars For the year For the year
ended ended We have audited the Standalone Financial Statements of NTPC Limited (“The Company”), which comprise the Balance Sheet
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 as at 31 March 2024, the Statement of Profit and Loss (including Other Comprehensive Income), the Statement of Changes
in Equity and the Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended and notes to the standalone financial statements, including
1. Eradicating Hunger and Poverty, Health Care and Sanitation 63.61 115.61
a summary of the material accounting policies and other explanatory information for the year ended on that date (hereinafter
2. Education and Skill Development 45.05 26.74
referred to as “Standalone Financial Statements”).
3. Empowerment of Women and other Economically Backward Sections 2.33 5.49
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid Standalone
4. Environmental Sustainability 59.86 38.14 Financial Statements give the information required by the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) in the manner so required and
5. Art & Culture 2.03 1.90 give a true and fair view in conformity with the Indian Accounting Standards prescribed under section 133 of the Act read
6. Sports 10.47 12.40 with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended, (“Ind AS”) and other accounting principles
generally accepted in India, of the state of affairs (financial position) of the Company as at 31 March, 2024, and its profit
7. Rural Development 17.22 19.84
(financial performance including other comprehensive income), changes in equity and its cash flows for the year ended on
8. Disaster management, including relief, rehabilitation and - 15.20
that date.
reconstruction activities
9. Contribution to PM CARES Fund - 80.00 Basis for Opinion
Total 200.57 315.32 We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs) specified under section 143(10) of the Act. Our
responsibilities under those Standards are further described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Company in accordance with the Code of Ethics
issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our
(Ritu Arora) (Jaikumar Srinivasan) (Gurdeep Singh)
audit of the Standalone Financial Statements under the provisions of the Act and the Rules made thereunder, and we have
Company Secretary Director (Finance) Chairman & Managing Director
fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the Code of Ethics. We believe that the
DIN: 01220828 DIN: 00307037
audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
These are the notes referred to in our report of even date
Emphasis of Matter
For Vinod Kumar & Associates For Goyal Parul & Co For M. C. Bhandari & Co. We draw attention to the following matters in the notes to the Standalone Financial Statements:
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants
(a) Note No 50 with respect to a Hydro Electric Project in the State of Uttarakhand which is under execution by the company.
Firm Reg. No. 002304N Firm Reg. No. 016750N Firm Reg. No. 303002E
After the reports of land subsidence in Joshimath Town, Additional District Magistrate, Chamoli has issued order on 5
January 2023 to stop all the construction activities till further orders. Aggregate cost incurred on the project up to 31
(Mukesh Dadhich) (Parul Goyal) (Amit Biswas)
March 2024 is ` 6,671.30 crore (31 March 2023: ` 6,252.31 crore). The matter is sub-judice in Hon’ble High Court of
Partner Partner Partner
Uttarakhand.
M. No. 511741 M. No. 099172 M. No. 052296
(b) The Company has been assigning jobs on contract basis, for sundry works in plants/stations/offices to M/s Utility Powertech
For J K S S & Associates For Agasti & Associates For S.N. Kapur & Associates Ltd. (UPL), a joint venture of the Company, in which the company has 50% shareholding. The rates were fixed on cost
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants plus basis, which were however, not considered by management, as on arm’s length basis. The transactions reported for
Firm Reg. No. 006836C Firm Reg. No. 313043E Firm Reg. No. 001545C the year are in respect of assignments awarded till the financial year 2022-23 having execution period beyond 31 March
2023. The company has presented for the approval of Audit Committee, transactions undertaken during the current
(Ram Babu) (B. Agasti) (S. N. Kapur) financial year 2023-24 of a value of ` 482.45 Crore, in pursuance to assignment awarded upto financial year 2022-23.
Partner Partner Partner The audit committee did not review or approve such transactions, but the same were subsequently approved by Board
M. No. 016151 M. No. 051026 M. No. 014335 of Directors in the meeting held on 24 May, 2024. (Refer Note No 59 (f) (i))
(c) Note No. 63 (iii) (b) with respect to appeal filed by the company with the Hon’ble High Court of Delhi in the matter of
Place: New Delhi
Arbitral award pronounced against the company and the related provision made/disclosure of contingent liability as
Dated: 24 May, 2024
mentioned in the said note.
Digitally signed by signatories
446 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 447
(d) Note No 65 (B) (v) with respect to execution of Business Transfer Agreement (BTA) dated 17 August 2023 with NTPC
Sl.
Mining Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the company, for hiving off its coal mining business at book value. The BTA Key Audit Matters How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matters
No.
has only been approved by the Board of Directors of the company and subsidiary company, which shall become effective
on completion of the precedent conditions as mentioned in the said BTA, subject to necessary regulatory approvals. (Refer Note No. 62(a) to the Standalone Financial Based on the above procedures performed, we observed that
Statements, read with the Material Accounting the Company’s impairment assessment of the PPE is adequate
Our opinion is not modified in respect of the aforesaid matters.
Policy No. C.1) and reasonable.
Key Audit Matters 3. Deferred Tax Asset relating to MAT Credit
Entitlement and corresponding Regulatory
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the Standalone
Deferral Liability
Financial Statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the Standalone
Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these The company has recognised deferred tax asset We have obtained an understanding for recognition of deferred
matters. For each matter below, description of how our audit addressed the matter is provided in that context. We have relating to MAT credit entitlement. Utilisation of tax asset relating to MAT credit entitlement and corresponding
determined the matters described below to be the key audit matters to be communicated in our report. MAT credit will result in lower outflow of Income liability of the same in Regulatory Deferral Account including
Tax in future years and accordingly Regulatory the management’s judgement.
Sl.
Key Audit Matters How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matters Deferral Liability attributable to the said MAT
No. We further assessed the related forecasts of future taxable
credit entitlement has also been recognised which
profits and evaluated the reasonableness of the considerations
1. Recognition and Measurement of revenue from We have obtained an understanding of the CERC Tariff is payable to the beneficiaries in subsequent
/assumptions underlying the preparation of these forecasts. We
Sale of Energy Regulations, orders, circulars, guidelines and the Company’s periods as per CERC Tariff Regulations. The
have also verified the regulatory deferral account balance
internal circulars and procedures in respect of recognition and recoverability of this deferred tax asset relating
The company records revenue from sale of energy attributable to the said MAT credit, payable to the beneficiaries
measurement of revenue from sale of energy comprising of to MAT credit entitlement is dependent upon the
as per the principles enunciated under Ind AS 115, in subsequent periods.
capacity and energy charges and adopted the following audit generation of sufficient future taxable profits to
based on tariff approved by the Central Electricity
procedures: utilise such entitlement within the stipulated Based on the above procedures performed, the recognition and
Regulatory Commission (CERC) as modified by the
period prescribed under the Income Tax Act,1961. measurement of Deferred tax asset relating to MAT credit
orders of Appellate Authorities. Pending issue of - Evaluated and tested the effectiveness of the Company’s
entitlement and attributable Regulatory Deferral Liability
provisional/final tariff order w.e.f. 01 April 2019 design of internal controls relating to recognition and We identified this as a key audit matter because
towards beneficiaries, are considered adequate and reasonable.
capacity charges has been provisionally measurement of revenue from sale of energy. of the importance of this matter to the intended
recognised considering the applicable CERC Tariff users of the Standalone Financial Statements and
- Examined the Company’s material accounting policies with
Regulations 2019. its materiality; and requirement of judgement in
respect to assessing compliance with Ind AS 115 “Revenue
forecasting future taxable profits for recognition
This is considered as key audit matter due to the from Contract with Customers”.
of MAT credit entitlement considering the
nature and extent of estimates made as per the
- Verified the accounting of revenue from sale of energy
recoverability of such tax credits within allowed
CERC Tariff Regulations, which leads to
based on provisional tariff computed as per the principles
time frame as per the provisions of the Income
recognition and measurement of revenue from
of CERC Tariff Regulations 2019.
Tax Act,1961.
sale of energy being complex and judgemental.
- Assessed the disclosures in accordance with the
(Refer Note No. 22, 29, 55 & 70 to the Standalone
(Refer Note No. 40 to the Standalone Financial
requirements of Ind AS 115 “Revenue from Contract with
Financial Statements, read with the Material
Statements, read with the Material Accounting
Customers”.
Accounting Policy No. C.4 and C.15)
Policy No.C.13)
Based on the above procedures performed, the recognition,
4. Contingent Liabilities We have obtained an understanding of the Company’s internal
measurement and disclosures of revenue from sale of energy
instructions and procedures in respect of estimation and
are considered to be adequate and reasonable. There are a number of litigations pending before
disclosure of contingent liabilities and adopted the following
various forums against the Company and the
2. Impairment assessment of Property, Plant and We have obtained an understanding and tested the design and management’s judgement is required for audit procedures:
Equipment (PPE) operating effectiveness of controls as established by the estimating the amount to be disclosed as - understood and tested the design and operating
The Company has a material operational asset Company’s management for impairment assessment of PPE. contingent liability. effectiveness of controls as established by the management
base (PPE) relating to generation of electricity and We evaluated the Company’s process of impairment We identified this as a key audit matter because for obtaining all relevant information for pending litigation
is one of the components for determining the assessment in assessing the appropriateness of the impairment the estimates on which these amounts are based cases;
tariff as per the CERC Tariff Regulations, which model including the independent assessment of discount rate, involve a significant degree of management - discussed with the management regarding any material
may be vulnerable to impairment. economic growth rate, terminal value etc. judgement in interpreting the cases and it may developments thereto and latest status of legal matters;
We considered this as a key audit matter as the We evaluated and checked the calculations of the cash flow be subject to management bias. - read various correspondences and related documents
carrying value of PPE requires impairment forecasts prepared by the Company taking into consideration (Refer Note No. 75(A) to the Standalone Financial pertaining to litigation cases and relevant external legal
assessment based on the future expected cash the CERC (Terms and Conditions of Tariff) Regulations, 2024 Statements, read with the Material Accounting opinions obtained by the management and performed
flows associated with the power plants (Cash (applicable for the tariff period of 5 years from 1 April 2024 to Policy No. C.11) substantive procedures on calculations supporting the
generating units). 31 March 2029) along with the aforementioned assumptions. disclosure of contingent liabilities;
448 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 449
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes our opinion.
Sl.
Key Audit Matters How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matters Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will
No.
always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material
- examined management’s judgements and assessments in if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on
respect of whether provisions are required; the basis of these Standalone Financial Statements.
- considered the management assessments of those matters As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout
that are not disclosed as contingent liability since the the audit. We also:
probability of material outflow is considered to be remote;
• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the Standalone Financial Statements, whether due to fraud or
- reviewed the adequacy and completeness of disclosures; error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is
Based on the above procedures performed, the estimation and
higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations,
disclosures of contingent liabilities are considered to be
or the override of internal control.
adequate and reasonable.
• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate
Information other than the Standalone Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report thereon in the circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion on whether
the company has adequate Internal Financial Controls system in place and the operating effectiveness of such controls.
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation of the other information. The other information comprises
the Corporate Governance Report, and the information included in the Directors’ Report including Annexures, Management • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related
Discussion and Analysis, Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report and other company related information (but does disclosures made by management.
not include the Consolidated Financial Statements and Standalone Financial Statements and our auditors’ report thereon),
• Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit
which are expected to be made available to us after the date of this auditors’ report.
evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt
Our opinion on the Standalone Financial Statements does not cover the other information and we do not and will not on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are
express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. required to draw attention in our auditors’ report to the related disclosures in the Standalone Financial Statements or, if
such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to
In connection with our audit of the Standalone Financial Statements, our responsibility is to read the other information
the date of our auditors’ report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as
identified above when it becomes available and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent
a going concern.
with the Standalone Financial Statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially
misstated. • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the Standalone Financial Statements, including the disclosures,
and whether the Standalone Financial Statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that
When we read other information, if we conclude that there is a material misstatement therein, we are required to communicate
achieves fair presentation.
the matter to those charged with governance and take appropriate actions, if required.
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the
Responsibilities of management and those charged with governance for the Standalone Financial Statements audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the matters stated in Section 134(5) of the Act with respect to the We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements
preparation and presentation of these Standalone Financial Statements that give a true and fair view of the financial position, regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought
financial performance, total comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows of the Company in accordance with to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
the accounting principles generally accepted in India, including the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) prescribed under From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most
Section 133 of the Act read with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 as amended. This responsibility significance in the audit of the Standalone Financial Statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters.
also includes maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding the We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or
assets of the Company and for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and application of appropriate when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the
accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and design, implementation and adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such
maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and communication.
completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the Standalone Financial Statements,
that give a true and fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Other Matter
In preparing the Standalone Financial Statements, management is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue 1. The audited standalone financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2023 included in these
as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting standalone financial statements, have been audited by the Predecessor Joint Statutory Auditors whose audit report
unless management either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do dated 19 May, 2023 expressed an unmodified opinion on those audited standalone financial statements.
so.
2. We audited the restatement adjustments, as disclosed in Note No. 54 to the Standalone Financial Statements, which
The Board of Directors is also responsible for overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process.
have been made to the comparative Standalone Financial Statements presented for the years prior to year ended 31
March, 2024, in accordance with the requirement of applicable Ind AS.
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements
Our opinion is not modified in respect of the aforesaid matters.
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Standalone Financial Statements as a whole are free
450 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 451
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements (b) The Management has represented, that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, as disclosed in the note no.
76(xvi) to the Standalone Financial Statements , no funds have been received by the Company from any
1. As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 2020 (“the Order”) issued by the Central Government of India in
person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (“Funding Parties”), with the understanding, whether
terms of Section 143(11) of the Act, and on the basis of such checks of the books and records of the Company as we
recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Company shall, directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other
considered appropriate and according to the information and explanations given to us, we give in “Annexure 1” a statement
persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party (“Ultimate
on the matters specified in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the said Order, to the extent applicable.
Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
2. We are enclosing our report in terms of Section 143(5) of the Act, on the basis of such checks of the books and records
(c) Based on the audit procedures performed that have been considered reasonable and appropriate in the
of the Company as we considered appropriate and according to the information and explanations given to us, in the
circumstances, nothing has come to our notice that has caused us to believe that the representations
“Annexure 2” on the directions issued by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India.
under sub-clause (i) and (ii) of Rule 11(e), as provided under (a) and (b) above, contain any material
3. As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report that: misstatement.
(a) We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief V. As stated in Note 23 (c) to the Standalone Financial Statements:
were necessary for the purposes of our audit.
(a) The final dividend proposed for the previous year, declared and paid by the Company during the year is in
(b) In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law have been kept by the Company so far as it appears from accordance with Section 123 of the Act, as applicable.
our examination of those books.
(b) Interim dividend declared and paid by the Company during the year is in accordance with Section 123 of
(c) The Balance Sheet, the Statement of Profit and Loss (including Other Comprehensive Income), the Statement of the Act.
Changes in Equity and the Statement of Cash Flows dealt with by this Report are in agreement with the books of
(c) The Board of Directors of the Company has proposed final dividend for the year which is subject to the
account.
approval of the members at the ensuing Annual General Meeting. The amount of dividend proposed is in
(d) In our opinion, the aforesaid Standalone Financial Statements comply with the Indian Accounting Standards prescribed accordance with Section 123 of the Act to the extent it applies to declaration of dividend.
under Section 133 of the Act read with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 as amended.
VI. Based on our examination, which included test checks, the Company has used accounting software for maintaining
(e) Being a Government Company pursuant to the Notification No. GSR 463(E) dated 5 June 2015 issued by the Ministry its books of account for the financial year ended 31 March, 2024 which has a feature of recording audit trail
of Corporate Affairs, Government of India, provisions of sub-section (2) of Section 164 of the Act, are not applicable (edit log) facility and the same has operated throughout the year for all relevant transactions recorded in the
to the Company. software. Further, during the course of our audit we did not come across any instance of the audit trail feature
being tampered with.
(f) With respect to the adequacy of the Internal Financial Controls with reference to the Standalone Financial Statement
of the Company and the operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate report in “Annexure 3”. Our As proviso to Rule 3(1) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 is applicable from 1 April, 2023, reporting
report expresses a opinion on the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the Company’s internal financial controls under Rule 11(g) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 on preservation of audit trail as per the
over financial reporting. statutory requirements for record retention is not applicable for the financial year ended 31 March, 2024.
(g) As per Notification No. GSR 463(E) dated 5 June 2015 issued by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Government of
India, Section 197 of the Act is not applicable to the Government Companies. Accordingly, reporting in accordance
For Vinod Kumar & Associates For Goyal Parul & Co For M. C. Bhandari & Co.
with requirement of provisions of section 197(16) of the Act is not applicable on the Company.
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants
(h) With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditors’ Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies FRN-002304N FRN-016750N FRN- 303002E
(Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, as amended, in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to
the explanations given to us: (Mukesh Dadhich) (Parul Goyal) (Amit Biswas)
Partner Partner Partner
I. The Company has disclosed the impact of pending litigations on its financial position in its Standalone Financial
M. No. 511741 M. No. 099172 M. No. 052296
Statements. Refer Note No. 75(A) to the Standalone Financial Statements;
UDIN: 24511741BJZYRA9379 UDIN: 24099172BKBKAG2157 UDIN: 24052296BKFZHU6845
II. The Company has made provision, as required under the applicable law or Indian accounting standards, for
material foreseeable losses, if any, on long-term contracts including derivative contracts.
III. There has been some delay in transferring unclaimed amount of dividend and equity shares related thereto, as
required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and Protection Fund by the Company. No amount of For J K S S & Associates For Agasti & Associates For S.N. Kapur & Associates
unclaimed dividend or unclaimed equity shares are pending to be transferred to the said fund as on 31 March Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants
2024. FRN-006836C FRN-313043E FRN-001545C
IV. (a) The Management has represented that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, as disclosed in the note no.
(Ram Babu) (B. Agasti) (S. N. Kapur)
76(xvi) to the Standalone Financial Statements , no funds have been advanced or loaned or invested (either
Partner Partner Partner
from borrowed funds or share premium or any other sources or kind of funds) by the Company to or in any
M. No. 016151 M. No. 051026 M. No. 014335
other person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (“Intermediaries”), with the understanding, whether
UDIN: 24016151BKDEWE2047 UDIN: 24051026BKGTSN4620 UDIN: 24014335BJZZMY4719
recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall, directly or indirectly lend or invest in other
persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Company (“Ultimate
Place: New Delhi
Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
Dated: 24 May, 2024
Digitally signed by signatories
452 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 453
ANNEXURE 1 TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT (b) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has been sanctioned
working capital limits in excess of 5 crores, in aggregate, from banks on the basis of security of current assets. The
Referred to in paragraph 1 under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date
quarterly returns or statements filed by the Company with the such banks are in agreement with the books of
to the members of NTPC LIMITED on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2024.
account of the Company. During the year Company has not availed working capital limit from any financial institution.
(i) (a) (A) The Company has generally maintained proper records showing full particulars including quantitative details
(iii) The Company has made investments in, provided guarantee, grant unsecured loan to subsidiaries and Joint Venture
and situation of Property, Plant and Equipment (including Right of Use assets) and non-current assets held for
companies during the year, in respect of which:
sale.
(a) According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not provided guarantee, security and
(B) The Company has generally maintained proper records showing full particulars of Intangible assets.
not granted loans and advances in the nature of loans, secured and unsecured to subsidiaries, Joint Ventures and
(b) The Company is having a regular programme of physical verification of all Property, Plant and Equipment (including other entities during the year, except the following:
Right of Use assets) and non-current assets held for sale over a period of three years, which, in our opinion, is
(` in crores)
reasonable having regard to the size of the Company and the nature of its assets. No material discrepancies were
noticed on such verification. Particular Loans Corporate Guarantees
(c) According to the information and explanations given to us, we report that, the title deeds of all the immovable Aggregate amount granted/ provided during the year:
properties which are included under the head of property, plant and equipment (other than properties where the - Subsidiaries 1,064.82 836.40
company is the lessee and the lease agreements are duly executed in favour of the lessee) are held in the name of (15 billion Japanese Yen)
the Company except as follows:
Balance outstanding as at balance sheet date in respect of
Description of Gross Held in the Whether promoter, Property held-range Reason for not above cases:
Property Carrying Value name of director or their (Financial Year) being held in the - Subsidiaries 100.00 836.40
(````` in crore) relative or employee name of company (15 billion Japanese Yen)
Land - 14.94 Large number of No 2023-24 The company is
(b) According to the information and explanations given to us and based on the audit procedures performed by us, we
Freehold 1,192.57 land oustees and 2022-23 taking appropriate
are of the opinion that the investments made, guarantees provided and the terms and conditions of loans granted
State authorities steps for
7.63 2021-22 by the company are, prima facie, not prejudicial to the company’s interest.
completion of
16.14 2020-21
legal formalities. (c) According to the information and explanations given to us and based on the audit procedures performed by us, we
18.31 2019-20 are of the opinion that in respect of loans granted, the schedule of repayment of principal and payment of interest
126.24 2016-17 to 2018-19 has been stipulated and the repayments of principal and receipts of interest are regular, except in a case of, a
subsidiary and a joint venture of the Company, detail of which is as given hereunder:
647.77 2011-12 to 2015-16
154.18 Prior to 2011-12 Name of Type of Nature Amount Due date Date of Extent of Remarks
the entity entity (````` in crore) payment delay
Land - Right 186.31 2022-23
(in days)
of Use 20.83 2020-21
20.83 2019-20 Ratnagiri Gas and Subsidiary Principal 100.00 31-05-2023 30-06-2023 30 Amount is
Power Private fully
168.98 2016-17 to 2018-19 50.00 31-07-2023 12-08-2023 12
Limited repaid.
173.05 2011-12 to 2015-16 50.00 31-07-2023 29-08-2023 29
244.19 Prior to 2011-12 50.00 31-07-2023 12-09-2023 43
Building 4.97 Government No Prior to 2011-12 14.32 31-07-2023 12-09-2023 43
Structures Authorities 50.00 05-12-2023 31-01-2024 57
50.00 12-01-2024 06-02-2024 25
(d) The Company has not revalued its Property, Plant and Equipment (including Right of Use assets) and intangible
assets during the year. Accordingly, reporting on clause 3(i)(d) of the Order is not applicable. 50.00 16-01-2024 06-02-2024 21
Interest* 1.04 31-05-2023 30-06-2023 30
(e) According to the information and explanations given to us, there are no proceedings which have been initiated or
are pending against the Company for holding benami property under the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 0.92 31-07-2023 12-08-2023 12
1988 (as amended in 2016) and rules made thereunder. 0.73 31-07-2023 29-08-2023 29
(ii) (a) In our opinion, the management has conducted physical verification of inventory at reasonable intervals during the 0.64 31-07-2023 12-09-2023 43
year. According to the information and explanations given to us and based on the audit procedures performed by 0.15 31-07-2023 12-09-2023 43
us, we are of the opinion that the coverage and procedure of such verification by the management is appropriate
1.20 05-12-2023 31-01-2024 57
and no material discrepancies of 10% or more in the aggregate for each class of inventory between physical inventory
1.20 12-01-2024 06-02-2024 25
and book records were noticed on physical verification.
1.20 16-01-2024 06-02-2024 21
454 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 455
Name of Type of Nature Amount Due date Date of Extent of Remarks dues as applicable to the appropriate authorities. We have been informed that employees’ state insurance is not
the entity entity (````` in crore) payment delay applicable to the Company. Further, no undisputed statutory dues are outstanding as on 31 March 2024 for a period
(in days) of more than six months from the date they became payable.
(b) According to information and explanations given to us, the gross disputed statutory dues of income tax or sales tax
National High Joint Venture Principal 0.92 30.09.2022, The entire amount of loan of ` 18.40
or service tax or duty of customs or duty of excise or value added tax or other statutory dues amounts to ` 3,987.69
Power Test crores (including overdue amount) has
0.92 31.03.2023, crore in aggregate as on 31 March 2024, out of which ` 1,734.47 crore has been deposited under protest/adjusted
Laboratory Private been converted into equity shares during
by tax authorities and the balance of ` 2,253.22 crore of dues have not been deposited on account of matters
Limited (NHPTL) 0.92 30.09.2023 the year.
pending before appropriate authorities as detailed below:
Interest* 5.85 30.09.2020 The entire amount of balance interest
onwards receivable of ` 2.31 crores (net of S Name of Statue Nature of Forum where Period to Gross Amount deposited Amount Not
No. Dues dispute is which the Disputed under protest/ deposited
payment received) has been waived
pending amount relates Amount adjusted by Tax (````` Crores)
during the year, simultaneous to
(Financial Year) (````` Crores) authorities
conversion of principal loan into equity.
(````` Crores)
*Excluding penal interest and extended period interest.
1 Income Tax Income Tax/ Assistant 2013-14 to 0.31 0.12 0.19
(d) According to information and explanations given to us and based on the audit procedures performed by us, in
Act, 1961 TDS Commissioner of 2014-15
respect of loans granted by the Company, there is no overdue amount remaining outstanding as at the balance
Income Tax
sheet date. During the year, the Company has converted its existing loan of ` 18.40 crores granted to National High
Power Test Laboratory Private Limited (a joint venture of NTPC), into equity shares. An amount of ` 2.31 crores in Commissioner 2009-10 & 163.13 163.13 -
respect of interest payable by the aforesaid borrower has been waived. of Income Tax 2015-16 to
(e) According to the information and explanations given to us and based on the audit procedures performed by us, we (Appeals) 2018-19
are of the opinion that no loan or advance in the nature of loan granted which has fallen due during the year, has
Income Tax 2001-02, 1,302.21 1,302.05 0.16
been renewed or extended or fresh loans granted to settle the overdue of existing loans given to the same parties.
Appellate 2005-06,
During the year, the Company has converted its existing loan of ` 18.40 crores granted to National High Power Test
Tribunal 2009-10 to
Laboratory Private Limited (a joint venture of NTPC), into equity shares. An amount of ` 2.31 crores in respect of
2014-15
interest payable by the aforesaid borrower has been waived.
(f) According to the information and explanations given to us and based on the audit procedures performed by us, we Hon’ble High 2006-07 to 209.23 209.23 -
are of the opinion that the Company has not granted any loans or advances in the nature of loans either repayable Court 2007-08,
on demand or without specifying any terms or period of repayment. 2009-10 to
2011-12
(iv) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has complied with the
provisions of Section 185 and 186 of the Act, to the extent applicable, in respect of loans granted to subsidiary companies Sub Total 1,674.88 1,674.53 0.35
and investments made in the subsidiary and joint venture companies and guarantees issued in favor of Banks for subsidiary
2 Finance Act, Service Tax CESTAT 2012-13 to 98.21 3.86 94.35
companies. The Company has not provided any security in respect of which the provisions of section 185 and 186 of the
1994 2017-18
Act are applicable.
Commissioner 2009-10 to 3.26 0.06 3.20
(v) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us and based on our examination of the books
(Appeals) 2017-18
and records of the Company, the company has not accepted any deposits or any amount deemed to be deposits from
public covered under the directives issued by the Reserve Bank of India and the provisions Sections 73 to 76 or any other Commissioner 2012-13 to 182.97 4.11 178.86
relevant provisions of the Act and rules framed thereunder. The company has obtained deposits from the dependents of of GST & Central 2017-18
employees pursuant to one of the employee benefit schemes of the company who die or suffer permanent total disability Excise
for which the Company has applied to the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Government of India for continuation of the
Hon’ble 2016-17 to 8.36 - 8.36
exemption earlier obtained in respect of applicability of Section 58A of the Companies Act, 1956, which is still awaited
High Court 2017-18
(refer Note No. 34(c) of the Standalone Financial Statements). No order has been passed with respect to Section 73 to
76, by the Company Law Board or National Company Law Tribunal or Reserve Bank of India or any Court or any other Joint Director 2016-17 3.54 - 3.54
Tribunal.
Sub Total 296.34 8.03 288.31
(vi) We have broadly reviewed the accounts and records maintained by the Company pursuant to the Rules made by the
3 CGST/SGST/ GST Commissioner 2017-18 to 30.78 1.40 29.38
Central Government for the maintenance of cost records under sub-section (1) of Section 148 of the Act read with
IGST Act 2017 (Appeals) 2019-20
Companies (Cost Records & Audit) Rules, 2014, as amended and we are of the opinion that prima facie the prescribed
accounts and records have been made and maintained. We have not, however, made detailed examination of the records Appellate 2017-18 to 127.84 6.07 121.77
with a view to determine whether they are accurate and complete. Authority 2020-21
(vii) (a) According to the information and explanations given to us and based on our examination of the books of accounts, Deputy 2017-18 0.10 - 0.10
the Company is generally regular in depositing undisputed statutory dues including goods and service tax, provident Commissioner
fund, income tax, sales tax, service tax, duty of customs, duty of excise, value added tax, cess and other statutory
456 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 457
S Name of Statue Nature of Forum where Period to Gross Amount deposited Amount Not S Name of Statue Nature of Forum where Period to Gross Amount deposited Amount Not
No. Dues dispute is which the Disputed under protest/ deposited No. Dues dispute is which the Disputed under protest/ deposited
pending amount relates Amount adjusted by Tax (````` Crores) pending amount relates Amount adjusted by Tax (````` Crores)
(Financial Year) (````` Crores) authorities (Financial Year) (````` Crores) authorities
(````` Crores) (````` Crores)
Principal 2017-18 to 11.69 0.60 11.09 Commissioner 2005-06 to 0.29 0.02 0.27
Commissioner 2022-23 of Sales Tax 2008-09
(Appeals)
Additional 2017-18 to 126.46 5.16 121.30
Commissioner 2020-21, 2023-24 Deputy 2001-02 to 11.66 - 11.66
Commissioner 2006-07
Assistant 2017-18 to 17.98 - 17.98
Sales Tax
Commissioner 2018-19
Hon’ble 2000-01 3.12 0.05 3.07
Sub Total 314.85 13.23 301.62
High Court
4 Entry Tax Act of Entry Tax Appellate 2001-02, 59.32 15.22 44.10
Joint 2000-01, 4.08 0.35 3.73
various States Tribunal/Board 2006-07 to
Commissioner 2004-05,
of Revenue 2017-18
of Sales Tax** 2005-06
Assistant 1985-86, 7.72 2.39 5.33
Joint 2015-16 1.17 0.49 0.68
Commissioner 1986-87,
Commissioner
of Sales Tax 2003-04,
of Sales Tax
2005-06,
(Appeals)
2015-16 to
2017-18 Assistant 2008-09 to 23.52 0.01 23.51
Commissioner 2009-10,
Deputy 1997-98, 4.61 0.46 4.15
2015-16 to
Commissioner 2005-06
2017-18
of Sales Tax
Divisional Deputy 2007-08 381.15 - 381.15
Hon’ble High 1990-91, 24.22 7.16 17.06
Commissioner 2016-17
Court 2005-06 to
Sales Tax
2012-13,
2017-18 Sub Total 486.20 10.41 475.79
Joint 2017-18 2.26 - 2.26 6 Jharkhand ForestMineral Hon’ble 2020-21 to 95.11 - 95.11
Commissioner Produce Transit Fee High Court 2023-24
(Regulation of
Sales Tax Officer 2017-18 0.31 - 0.31
Transport)
Sub Total 98.44 25.23 73.21
Rules 2020
5 Sales tax and Sales Tax/ Additional 2001-02, 22.54 1.96 20.58
Sub Total 95.11 - 95.11
Value Added Trade Tax/ Commissioner of 2002-03,
7 Gujarat Green Green Cess Commissioner 2012-13 to 57.11 - 57.11
Tax Act of Value Added Sales Tax* 2004-05,
Cess Act, 2011 (Appeals) 2022-23
Various States Tax 2006-07,
2014-15 to Sub Total 57.11 - 57.11
2015-16 &
8 Employees EPS RPFC 1996-97 to 29.30 2.08 27.22
2017-18
Provident Fund contribution 2014-15 &
Additional 1988-89 to 2.11 0.17 1.94 & Miscellaneous 2023-24
Commissioner of 1997-98, Provisions Act
Sales Tax 2015-16 1952
(Appeals)
Sub Total 29.30 2.08 27.22
Appellate 1985-86, 36.56 7.36 29.20
9 Employees’ StateESI ESI Court 1996-97 to 12.43 - 12.43
Tribunal/Board 2000-01 to
Insurance Act, Contribution 2002-03
of Revenue 2010-11,
1948
2014-15
Sub Total 12.43 - 12.43
458 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 459
Remarks:
S Name of Statue Nature of Forum where Period to Gross Amount deposited Amount Not
No. Dues dispute is which the Disputed under protest/ deposited * Includes ` 20.59 crore towards demand for VAT and CST raised by Sales Tax authority, which has been stayed by
pending amount relates Amount adjusted by Tax (````` Crores) Commissioner/Additional Commissioner of sales tax.
(Financial Year) (````` Crores) authorities
** includes ` 3.81 crore towards demand for CST raised by Sales Tax Officer, which has been stayed by the Hon’ble High
(````` Crores)
Court.
10 Industrial Notified Area Hon’ble Upto Sept. 2005 5.92 - 5.92
Disputed statutory dues include interest and penalty wherever applicable.
Development Tax Supreme Court
Act, 1962 (viii)In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not surrendered or
disclosed as income, any transaction not recorded in the books of account, during the year in the tax assessments under
Sub Total 5.92 - 5.92
the Income Tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961). Accordingly, the reporting on clause 3(viii) of the Order is not applicable.
11 Central Excise Excise Duty CESTAT 1999-00, 4.50 - 4.50
(ix) (a) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not defaulted in
Act, 1944 2010-11
repayment of loans or other borrowings or in the payment of interest thereon to any lender.
Sub Total 4.50 - 4.50
(b) According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our audit procedures, we report that
12 Rajasthan Land Land Rajasthan 2006-07 to 2.04 0.60 1.44
the Company has not been declared willful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or other lender.
Tax Act, 1985 Development Revenue 2012-13
(c) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the term loans were applied for the
Tax Department
purposes for which the loans were obtained.
Sub Total 2.04 0.60 1.44
(d) According to the information and explanations given to us, and the procedures performed by us, and on an overall
13 Mines and Penalty High Court 2011-12 0.53 0.34 0.19
examination of the standalone financial statements of the company, we report that no funds raised on short-term
Minerals
basis have been used for long-term purposes by the Company.
Development
and Regulation (e) According to the information and explanations given to us and on an overall examination of the standalone financial
Act 1957 statements of the company, we report that the company has not taken any funds from any entity or person on
account of or to meet the obligations of its subsidiaries and joint ventures except that the Company has taken loan
Sub Total 0.53 0.34 0.19
from Banks and given loan to one of the subsidiaries, as per details given below:
14 Customs Act, Customs Commissioner 2005-06 to 0.29 0.02 0.27
Nature of Name of Amount Name of the Relation Nature of Remarks,
1962 Duty of Customs 2015-16
fund taken lender Involved/ subsidiary to Transaction for if any
(Appeals)
outstanding whom loan given which funds
Sub Total 0.29 0.02 0.27
(````` in Crore) utilized
15 The Forest Penalty NGT Kolkata 2023-24 857.00 - 857.00
Unsecured HDFC Bank 249.62 Ratnagiri Gas and Subsidiary Secured loan Total loan of
(Conservation)
Term Loan Ltd. Power Private Limited given on ` 885 crore was
Act, 1980
account of taken and given by
Sub Total 857.00 - 857.00 Debt Settlement the Company in the
16 Jharkhand Composition High Court 2021-22 to 25.40 - 25.40 of Subsidiary. year 2020-21
Highways Fee User Fee 2022-23 Bank of 62.80
(Determination India Ltd.
of rates and
Total 312.42
collection)
Rules 2021 (f) According to the information and explanations given to us and procedures performed by us, we report that the
Company has not raised loans during the year on the pledge of securities held in its subsidiaries and joint ventures.
Sub Total 25.40 - 25.40
17 Rajasthan Municipal Rajasthan 2007-24 27.11 - 27.11 (x) (a) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company did not raise moneys by
Municipal Tax Revenue way of initial public offer or further public offer during the year. The company has raised Privately Placed Non-
Act, 1959 Department Convertible Debentures during the year and in our opinion and according to the explanations given to us the money
raised by way of Privately Placed Non-Convertible Debentures were applied for the purposes for which they were
Sub Total 27.11 - 27.11
raised.
18 Income Tax Income Tax/ Deputy 2019-20 0.24 - 0.24
(b) During the year, the Company has not made any preferential allotment or private placement of shares or convertible
Act-Bangladesh TDS Commissioner
debentures (fully, partially or optionally). Accordingly, reporting under clause 3(x)(b) of the order is not applicable.
Sub Total 0.24 - 0.24
Total 3,987.69 1,734.47 2,253.22
460 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 461
(xi) (a) According to the information and explanations given to us and as represented by the Management and based on We, however, state that this is not an assurance as to the future viability of the Company. We further state that our
our examination of the books and records of the Company and in accordance with generally accepted auditing reporting is based on the facts up to the date of the audit report and we neither give any guarantee nor any assurance
practices in India, no case of material fraud by the Company or on the Company has been noticed or reported that all liabilities falling due within a period of one year from the balance sheet date, will get discharged by the
during the year. Company as and when they fall due.
(b) According to the information and explanations given to us, no report under sub-section (12) of section 143 of (xx) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the company has incurred expenditure
the Act has been filed in Form ADT-4 as prescribed under Rule 13 of Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 under Corporate Social Responsibility as required by the provisions of Section 135 of the Act and there are no unspent
(as amended from time to time) with the Central Government, during the year and up to the date of this report. amounts which are to be transferred pursuant to section 135(5) and 135(6) of the Act.
(c) We have taken into consideration the Whistle blower complaints received by the Company during the year and
provided to us, when performing the audit.
For Vinod Kumar & Associates For Goyal Parul & Co For M. C. Bhandari & Co.
(xii) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company is not a Nidhi company and Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants
accordingly the Nidhi Rules, 2014 is not applicable to it, hence reporting under paragraph 3(xii) (a, b and c) of the FRN-002304N FRN-016750N FRN- 303002E
Order is not applicable to the Company.
(Mukesh Dadhich) (Parul Goyal) (Amit Biswas)
(xiii) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, all transactions with the related parties Partner Partner Partner
are in compliance with Sections 177 and 188 of Act, where applicable, and the requisite details have been disclosed in M. No. 511741 M. No. 099172 M. No. 052296
the standalone financial statements, as required by the applicable Indian Accounting Standard. UDIN: 24511741BJZYRA9379 UDIN: 24099172BKBKAG2157 UDIN: 24052296BKFZHU6845
(xiv) (a) In our opinion and based on our examination, the Company has an internal audit system commensurate with the
size and nature of its business.
(b) We have considered the reports of the Internal Auditors for the year under audit, issued to the Company during For J K S S & Associates For Agasti & Associates For S.N. Kapur & Associates
the year and till date, in determining the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures. Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants
FRN-006836C FRN-313043E FRN-001545C
(xv) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not entered into any
non-cash transactions with the directors or persons connected with them covered under Section 192 of the Act.
(Ram Babu) (B. Agasti) (S. N. Kapur)
Accordingly, reporting on clause 3(xv) of the Order is not applicable.
Partner Partner Partner
(xvi) (a) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company is not required to be M. No. 016151 M. No. 051026 M. No. 014335
registered under Section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934. Accordingly, reporting on clause (xvi)(a) of UDIN: 24016151BKDEWE2047 UDIN: 24051026BKGTSN4620 UDIN: 24014335BJZZMY4719
the Order is not applicable to the Company.
Place: New Delhi
(b) According to the information and explanations provided to us, the Company has not conducted any Non-Banking
Dated: 24 May, 2024
Financial or Housing Finance activities therefore the Company is not required to be registered under Section 45-
Digitally signed by signatories
IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934. Accordingly, reporting on clause (xvi)(b) of the Order is not applicable
to the Company.
(c) The Company is not a Core Investment Company (CIC) as defined in the regulations made by the Reserve Bank of
India. Accordingly, reporting on clause (xvi)(c) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(d) In our opinion, there is no core investment company within the Group (as defined in the Core Investment
Companies (Reserve Bank) Directions, 2016). Accordingly, reporting on clause (xvi)(d) of the Order is not applicable
to the Company.
(xvii) Based on our examination of the books and records of the Company, the Company has not incurred cash losses in the
financial year and in the immediately preceding financial year. Accordingly, reporting on clause 3(xvii) of the order is
not applicable.
(xviii) There has been no resignation of the statutory auditors during the year. Accordingly, reporting on clause 3(xviii) of the
order is not applicable.
(xix) According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of the financial ratios, ageing and expected
dates of realization of financial assets and payment of financial liabilities, other information accompanying the standalone
financial statements, our knowledge of the Board of Directors and management plans and based on our examination
of the evidence supporting the assumptions, nothing has come to our attention, which causes us to believe that any
material uncertainty exists as on the date of the audit report that Company is not capable of meeting its liabilities
existing at the date of balance sheet as and when they fall due within a period of one year from the balance sheet date.
462 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 463
ANNEXURE 2 TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT ANNEXURE 3 TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
Referred to in paragraph 2 under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even Referred to in paragraph 3 (f) under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even
date to the members of NTPC LIMITED on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2024. date to the members of NTPC LIMITED on the Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2024
Sl. Directions u/s 143(5) of the Auditors’ reply on action taken on the directions Report on the Internal Financial Controls with reference to the Standalone Financial Statement under Clause (i)
No. Companies Act, 2013 of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”).
1 Whether the Company has system in place As per the information and explanations given to us, the Company has We have audited the internal financial controls with reference to the Standalone Financial Statements of NTPC Limited (“the
to process all the accounting transactions a system in place to process all the accounting transactions through IT Company”) as of 31 March 2024 in conjunction with our audit of the Standalone Financial Statements of the Company for
through IT system? If yes, the implications of system. SAP-ERP has been implemented for all the processes like the year ended on that date.
processing of accounting transactions Financial Accounting (FI), Controlling (CO), Sales and Distribution (SD),
outside IT system on the integrity of the Payroll / Human Capital Management (HCM), Material Management Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls
accounts along with the financial (MM), Commercial billing / Industry Solution Utilities (ISU), etc. Based
The Company’s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal
implications, if any, may be stated. on the audit procedures carried out and as per the information and
controls over financial reporting criteria established by the Company considering the essential components of internal control
explanations given to us, no accounting transactions have been
stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls over Financial Reporting issued by The Institute of Chartered
processed /carried outside the IT system. Accordingly, there are no
Accountants of India (ICAI). These responsibilities include the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal
implications on the integrity of the accounts.
financial controls that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including
2 Whether there is any restructuring of an Based on the audit procedures carried out and as per the information adherence to Company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the
existing loan or cases of waiver/write off of and explanations given to us, there was no restructuring of existing loans accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable financial information, as required
debts/ loans/ interest etc. made by a lender or cases of waiver/write off of debts/ loans/ interest etc. made by the under the Act.
to the company due to the company’s lender to the auditee company due to the company’s inability to repay
inability to repay the loan? If yes, the financial the loan. Auditors’ Responsibility
impact may be stated. Whether such cases
The Company has converted its existing loan of 18.40 crores granted to Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal financial controls with reference to the Standalone
are properly accounted for?
National High Power Test Laboratory Private Limited (a joint venture of Financial Statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal
(In case, lender is a Government company, NTPC), into equity shares. An amount of 2.31 crores in respect of interest Financial Controls over Financial Reporting (the “Guidance Note”) and the Standards on Auditing, issued by ICAI and deemed
then this direction is also applicable for payable by the aforesaid borrower has been waived. The same has been to be prescribed under section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls, both
statutory auditor of lender company). properly accounted for in the books. applicable to an audit of Internal Financial Controls and, both issued by ICAI. Those Standards and the Guidance Note require
that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
3 Whether funds (grants/subsidy etc.) received Based on the audit procedures carried out and as per the information
adequate internal financial controls with reference to the Standalone Financial Statements was established and maintained
/ receivable for specific schemes from Central and explanations given to us, the funds (grants/subsidy etc.) received/
and if such controls operated effectively in all material respects.
/ State Government or its agencies were receivable for specific schemes from Central/State Government or its
properly accounted for/utilized as per its agencies were properly accounted for/utilized as per the respective Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial control with
term and conditions? List the cases of deviation. terms and conditions. reference to the standalone Financial Statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial control
with reference to the Standalone Financial Statements included obtaining an understanding of internal financial control with
For Vinod Kumar & Associates For Goyal Parul & Co For M. C. Bhandari & Co.
reference to the Standalone Financial Statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants
the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on the
FRN-002304N FRN-016750N FRN- 303002E
auditors’ judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the Standalone Financial Statements,
whether due to fraud or error.
(Mukesh Dadhich) (Parul Goyal) (Amit Biswas)
Partner Partner Partner We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on
M. No. 511741 M. No. 099172 M. No. 052296 the Company’s internal financial controls system with reference to the Standalone Financial Statements.
UDIN: 24511741BJZYRA9379 UDIN: 24099172BKBKAG2157 UDIN: 24052296BKFZHU6845
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with reference to the Standalone Financial Statements
For J K S S & Associates For Agasti & Associates For S.N. Kapur & Associates
A Company’s internal financial control with reference to the Standalone Financial Statements is a process designed to provide
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of Standalone Financial Statements
FRN-006836C FRN-313043E FRN-001545C
for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A Company’s internal financial control
with reference to the Standalone Financial Statements includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the
(Ram Babu) (B. Agasti) (S. N. Kapur)
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets
Partner Partner Partner
of the Company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
M. No. 016151 M. No. 051026 M. No. 014335
Standalone Financial Statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
UDIN: 24016151BKDEWE2047 UDIN: 24051026BKGTSN4620 UDIN: 24014335BJZZMY4719
expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the
Place: New Delhi
Company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use,
Dated: 24 May, 2024
or disposition of the Company’s assets that could have a material effect on the Standalone Financial Statements.
Digitally signed by signatories
464 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 465
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with reference to the Standalone Financial Statements COMMENTS OF THE COMPTROLLER AND AUDITOR GENERAL OF INDIA UNDER SECTION
143(6)(b) OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013 ON THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls with reference to the Standalone Financial Statements,
including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or OF NTPC LIMITED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 AND MANAGEMENT REPLIES
fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial controls with reference to
THEREON
the Standalone Financial Statements to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial controls with reference
to the Standalone Financial Statements may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
The preparation of financial statements of NTPC Limited for the year ended 31 March 2024 in accordance with the financial
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
reporting framework prescribed under the Companies Act, 2013 (Act) is the responsibility of the management of the company.
The statutory auditors appointed by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India under Section 139 (5) of the Act are
Opinion
responsible for expressing opinion on the financial statements under Section 143 of the Act based on independent audit in
In our opinion, to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the Company has, in all material accordance with the Standards on Auditing prescribed under Section 143(10) of the Act. This is stated to have been done by
respects, an adequate internal financial controls with reference to the Standalone Financial Statements in place and such them vide their Audit Report dated 24 May 2024.
internal financial controls with reference to the Standalone Financial Statements were operating effectively as at 31 March
I, on behalf of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India, have conducted a supplementary audit of the financial statements
2024, based on the internal controls over financial reporting criteria established by the Company considering the components
of NTPC Limited for the year ended 31 March 2024 under Section 143(6)(a) of the Act. This supplementary audit has been
of internal controls stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls over Financial Reporting issued by the
carried out independently without access to the working papers of the Statutory Auditors and is limited primarily to inquiries
ICAI.
of the Statutory Auditors and Company personnel and a selective examination of some of the accounting records.
Based on my supplementary audit, I would like to highlight the following significant matters under Section 143(6)(b) of the
For Vinod Kumar & Associates For Goyal Parul & Co For M. C. Bhandari & Co. Act which have come to my attention and which in my view are necessary for enabling a better understanding of the financial
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants statements and the related Audit Report:
FRN-002304N FRN-016750N FRN- 303002E
Comment Management Reply
(Mukesh Dadhich) (Parul Goyal) (Amit Biswas) Statement of Profit and Loss
Partner Partner Partner
Expenses-Other Expenses (Note No. 46): ````` 15213.43 crore
M. No. 511741 M. No. 099172 M. No. 052296
UDIN: 24511741BJZYRA9379 UDIN: 24099172BKBKAG2157 UDIN: 24052296BKFZHU6845
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Expenses: ````` 200.57
crore
As per section 135 (5) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule The Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy)
7 (3) of the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Amendment Rules, 2021 notified on 22 January 2021, provides
For J K S S & Associates For Agasti & Associates For S.N. Kapur & Associates Policy) Amendment Rules, 2021, if the company spends an vide Rule 7 (3) that Where a company spends an amount in
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants amount in excess of requirements provided under this excess of requirement provided under sub-section (5) of section
FRN-006836C FRN-313043E FRN-001545C section (2%), such excess amount may be set off against the 135, such excess amount may be set off against the
requirement to spend under this sub-section for such requirement to spend under sub-section (5) of section 135 up
(Ram Babu) (B. Agasti) (S. N. Kapur) number of succeeding financial years as may be prescribed to immediate succeeding three financial years subject to the
Partner Partner Partner (three years). Further, Technical Guidance of ICAI on CSR conditions that –
M. No. 016151 M. No. 051026 M. No. 014335 Accounting provides that if the company decides to adjust
(i) the excess amount available for set off shall not include
UDIN: 24016151BKDEWE2047 UDIN: 24051026BKGTSN4620 UDIN: 24014335BJZZMY4719 such excess spent amount against its future CSR obligation,
the surplus arising out of the CSR activities, if any, in
the same is to be recognized as an asset and if it. decides
pursuance of sub-rule (2) of this rule.
Place: New Delhi not to carry forward the same, such excess spent amount is
Dated: 24 May, 2024 to be recognized as an expense. (ii) the Board of the company shall pass a resolution to that
Digitally signed by signatories effect.
During the year 2023-24, the Company was required to
spend an amount of ` 337.98 crore towards CSR. However, NTPC has met these conditions and hence has a right to set-
it spent an amount of ` 200.57 crore and adjusted an amount off the excess spent in the earlier years in the succeeding years
of ` 137.41 crore from excess CSR spending in previous years. against its CSR obligations as per the Rules.
This was in violation of the Companies Act, 2013 as the
NTPC has been consistently complying with CSR spending
Company had not created assets in respect of excess CSR
requirements as mandated under the Companies Act and is
spending in previous years. Therefore, adjustment of the
also committed to spend the minimum amount as per the
excess CSR spending in previous years towards current year’s
requirements under CSR rules. As per the aforesaid
obligation has led to shortfall in spending minimum
requirement, the excess spent available at the end of 31 March
stipulated CSR obligation to the extent of ` 137.41 crore 2023 amounting to ` 225.19 crore has been approved by the
which should have been shown as current liability on
Board in its meeting held on 19 May 2023 to be carried forward
account of CSR obligation.
466 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 467
EMPLOYEE COST SUMMARY
Comment Management Reply
````` Crore
This has resulted in understatement of ‘Other expenses’ as in the succeeding years, in line with the provisions of CSR policy
well as ‘Current liabilities -Other current liabilities’ by rules stated above. Description 2019-20 2020-21 2021-22 2022-23 2023-24
` 137.41 crore each.
In all the earlier years, there was no necessity to adjust from A. Salary, wages and benefits 5,530.64 5,302.16 5,561.38 5,923.95 5,939.80
the carried forward amounts and the actual expenses itself (Incl. Provident fund and other contributions)
were more than the 2% requirement. In view of this trend of
B. Other benefits
past, the Company has not created any asset for the excess
spent with a disclosure in the financial statements that “The 1. Welfare expenses 257.12 272.56 337.56 220.54 290.94
set off available in the succeeding years is not recognised as
2. Township 281.79 288.57 316.73 357.72 366.15
an asset as a matter of prudence, considering the uncertainty
3. Educational and school facilities 31.77 27.67 26.82 72.35 60.47
involved in the adjustment of the same in future years.”
4. Medical facilities 254.44 249.53 318.44 316.09 323.01
The Company has incurred an amount of ` 200.57 crore during
the year 2023-24 and utilised an amount of ` 137.41 crore 5. Subsidised transport 13.04 2.90 3.88 3.60 3.93
out of the duly approved carried forwarded amount and duly
6. Social and cultural activities 9.96 9.08 6.54 6.25 7.10
met the CSR expenditure obligation of ` 337.98 crore as per
the applicable provisions of Companies Act, 2013 read with 7. Subsidised canteen 86.85 81.80 95.84 115.10 125.95
relevant Rules.
Total (B) 934.97 932.11 1,105.81 1,091.65 1,177.55
Since the CSR obligation as per Section 135 of the Companies
Total (A+B) 6,465.61 6,234.27 6,667.19 7,015.60 7,117.35
Act, 2013 read with applicable CSR rules has been complied
with, need for creation of a provision during the year 2023- 8. Year end no. of employees 17,398 16,798 15,794 15,159 14,983
24 for the amount equivalent to the set off availed as per 9. Average no. of employees 17,879 17,098 16,296 15,477 15,071
Rules, does not arise.
10. Average salary, wages and benefits 30,93,372 31,01,041 34,12,727 38,27,583 39,41,212
The provisions of Companies Act, 2013 prevail over technical per employee per annum (`)
guidance given by ICAI and the Company has complied with
11. Average cost of other benefits per 5,22,943 5,45,157 6,78,578 7,05,337 7,81,338
the requirements of the Companies Act,2013 as stated above.
employee per annum (`)
As such, there is no understatement of ‘Other expenses’ and
‘Current liabilities -Other current liabilities’. 12. Average cost of employees remuneration 36,16,315 36,46,198 40,91,305 45,32,920 47,22,550
and benefits per annum (`)
Note:
For and on behalf of the For and on behalf of the 1. Welfare expenses are net of amounts included in Sl. no. 2 to Sl. no. 7.
Comptroller & Auditor General of India Board of Directors
Sd/- Sd/-
(S. Ahlladini Panda) (Gurdeep Singh)
Director General of Audit (Energy) Chairman and Managing Director
Place : New Delhi Place : New Delhi
Dated: 01 August 2024 Dated : 02 August 2024
468 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 469
Revenue expenditure on Social Overhead for the year ended on 31st March, 2024 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET AS AT 31 MARCH 2024
````` Crore
````` Crore
Particulars Note As at As at* As at*
Particulars Town-ship Educational Medical Subsidized Social and Subsidized Total Previous
No. 31 March 2024 31 March 2023 1 April 2022
and School facilities Transport Cultural Canteen Year
facilities Activities ASSETS
Non-current assets
Payment to employees 27.48 - 156.14 - - - 183.62 188.22
Property, plant and equipment 2 2,58,423.86 2,39,882.50 2,24,343.75
Material consumed 22.32 - 5.42 - - - 27.73 24.65 Capital work-in-progress 3 87,592.80 89,133.12 91,025.21
Intangible assets 4 509.77 541.92 579.27
Rates and taxes 1.60 - 0.00 - - - 1.60 1.18
Intangible assets under development 5 71.65 45.88 101.05
Welfare expenses 1.94 58.18 215.41 3.93 7.03 124.06 410.54 409.49 Investments accounted for using the 6 15,130.96 13,252.09 10,522.14
equity method
Others including repairs 247.91 0.07 93.05 - 0.07 0.83 341.93 343.18
Financial assets
& maintenance
Investments 7 703.60 632.70 104.10
Depreciation 117.54 2.22 9.14 - - 1.07 129.97 117.66 Loans 8 570.19 553.77 559.81
Trade Receivables 9 1,287.54 2,638.68 -
Sub-total (1 to 6) 418.78 60.47 479.16 3.93 7.10 125.95 1,095.39 1,084.38
Other financial assets 10 710.80 900.70 1,017.98
Less : Recoveries 25.15 - - - - - 25.15 25.05 Deferred tax assets (net) 11 1,169.90 937.85 995.70
Other non-current assets 12 16,016.17 16,333.91 15,877.02
Net expenditure (7-8) 393.63 60.47 479.16 3.93 7.10 125.95 1,070.24 1,059.33
Total non-current assets 3,82,187.24 3,64,853.12 3,45,126.03
Previous Year 384.16 72.37 477.85 3.60 6.25 115.10 1,059.33 -
Current assets
Inventories 13 18,019.12 14,240.37 10,139.29
Financial assets
Investments 14 50.00 50.00 -
Trade receivables 15 33,349.68 30,112.41 36,320.36
Cash and cash equivalents 16 863.34 465.65 675.77
Bank balances other than cash 17 5,984.00 4,482.88 3,782.31
and cash equivalents
Loans 18 271.12 268.78 270.37
Other financial assets 19 13,212.71 8,912.07 5,826.14
Current tax assets (net) 20 46.78 93.51 62.64
Other current assets 21 11,238.78 11,160.27 9,525.32
Total current assets 83,035.53 69,785.94 66,602.20
Assets held for Sale 22 117.77 120.92 18.50
Regulatory deferral account debit balances 23 14,856.03 13,153.27 13,199.17
TOTAL ASSETS 4,80,196.57 4,47,913.25 4,24,945.90
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Equity share capital 24 9,696.67 9,696.67 9,696.67
Other equity 25 1,51,012.60 1,37,326.50 1,25,677.07
Total equity attributable to owners of the 1,60,709.27 1,47,023.17 1,35,373.74
Company
Non-controlling interests 26 4,413.01 3,930.45 3,760.41
Total equity 1,65,122.28 1,50,953.62 1,39,134.15
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
Borrowings 27 1,90,214.97 1,87,883.57 1,81,871.19
Lease liabilities 28 1,837.83 1,604.04 962.69
Other financial liabilities 29 540.32 874.93 1,144.50
Provisions 30 2,084.03 1,919.92 1,655.35
Deferred tax liabilities (net) 31 15,231.83 12,690.00 10,951.67
Other non-current liabilities 32 2,810.14 2,611.95 1,926.65
Total non-current liabilities 2,12,719.12 2,07,584.41 1,98,512.05
470 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 471
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET AS AT 31 MARCH 2024 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024
````` Crore ````` Crore
Particulars Note As at As at* As at* Particulars Note For the year For the year
No. 31 March 2024 31 March 2023 1 April 2022 No. ended ended
Current liabilities 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Financial liabilities Income
Borrowings 33 44,825.33 33,208.80 36,033.56
Revenue from operations 42 1,78,500.88 1,76,207.18
Lease liabilities 34 252.85 216.75 188.61
Other income 43 2,664.98 1,769.21
Trade payables 35
Total income 1,81,165.86 1,77,976.39
Total outstanding dues of micro and 579.97 308.92 302.61
small enterprises Expenses
Total outstanding dues of creditors other 10,757.98 11,047.24 9,748.57 Fuel cost 44 98,311.96 1,00,655.78
than micro and small enterprises Electricity purchased for trading 5,682.79 5,324.95
Other financial liabilities 36 32,944.74 30,782.44 28,853.66 Employee benefits expense 45 6,592.03 6,528.34
Other current liabilities 37 1,980.19 1,954.28 1,877.61 Finance costs 46 12,048.21 11,156.06
Provisions 38 7,060.33 8,215.23 7,875.53 Depreciation, amortization and impairment expense 47 16,203.63 14,792.27
Current tax liabilities (net) 39 2.95 86.47 141.13
Other expenses 48 16,821.39 15,968.17
Total current liabilities 98,404.34 85,820.13 85,021.28
Total expenses 1,55,660.01 1,54,425.57
Deferred revenue 40 2,651.00 2,950.48 2,278.42
Profit before share of profits of joint ventures accounted 25,505.85 23,550.82
Regulatory deferral account credit balances 41 1,299.83 604.61 -
for using equity method, tax and regulatory deferral
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 4,80,196.57 4,47,913.25 4,24,945.90
account balances
*-Restated - Refer Note 56 Add: Share of profits of joint ventures accounted for using 1,635.60 779.77
equity method
Material accounting policy information 1
Profit before tax and regulatory deferral account balances 27,141.45 24,330.59
The accompanying notes 1 to 78 form an integral part of these financial statements. Tax expense 57
Current tax
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Current year 4,457.24 4,659.84
Earlier years (161.14) 196.27
(Ritu Arora) (Jaikumar Srinivasan) (Gurdeep Singh)
Deferred tax 2,513.10 1,940.01
Company Secretary Director (Finance) Chairman & Managing Director
Total tax expense 6,809.20 6,796.12
DIN: 01220828 DIN: 00307037
Profit before regulatory deferral account balances 20,332.25 17,534.47
This is the Consolidated Balance Sheet referred to in our report of even date Net movement in regulatory deferral account balances 72 1000.20 (413.12)
(net of tax)
For Vinod Kumar & Associates For Goyal Parul & Co For M. C. Bhandari & Co. Profit for the year 21,332.45 17,121.35
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Other comprehensive income
Firm Reg. No. 002304N Firm Reg. No. 016750N Firm Reg. No. 303002E Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
- Net actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit plans (154.69) (104.30)
(Mukesh Dadhich) (Parul Goyal) (Amit Biswas)
- Net gains/(losses) on fair value of equity instruments 120.90 3.60
Partner Partner Partner
- Share of other comprehensive income of joint ventures 5.69 1.89
M. No. 511741 M. No. 099172 M. No. 052296
accounted for using the equity method
Income tax on items that will not be classified to profit or loss
For J K S S & Associates For Agasti & Associates For S.N. Kapur & Associates
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants - Net actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit plans 23.24 17.23
Firm Reg. No. 006836C Firm Reg. No. 313043E Firm Reg. No. 001545C Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss
- Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (19.75) (121.42)
(Ram Babu) (B. Agasti) (S. N. Kapur) Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax (24.61) (203.00)
Partner Partner Partner Total comprehensive income for the year 21,307.84 16,918.35
M. No. 016151 M. No. 051026 M. No. 014335 Profit attributable to:
Owners of the Parent Company 20,811.89 16,912.55
Place: New Delhi
Non-controlling interests 520.56 208.80
Dated: 24 May, 2024
21,332.45 17,121.35
Digitally signed by signatories
472 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 473
474 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 475
4202
HCRAM
13
DEDNE
RAEY
EHT
ROF
YTIUQE
NI
SEGNAHC
FO
TNEMETATS
DETADILOSNOC latipac erahs ytiuqE
)A(
erorC
`````
4202
hcraM 13 dedne raey
eht roF
tnuomA
sralucitraP
76.696,9
3202 lirpA 1 ta sa
ecnalaB
-
srorre
doirep
roirp
ot
eud
latipac erahs ytiuqe ni
segnahC
76.696,9
3202
lirpA 1 ta sa ecnalab
detatseR
-
raey
eht
gnirud
latipac erahs ytiuqe ni
segnahC
76.696,9
4202 hcraM 13 ta sa
ecnalaB
erorC
`
3202
hcraM 13 dedne raey
eht roF
tnuomA
sralucitraP
76.696,9
2202 lirpA 1 ta sa
ecnalaB
-
srorre
doirep
roirp
ot
eud
latipac erahs ytiuqe ni
segnahC
76.696,9
2202
lirpA 1 ta sa ecnalab
detatseR
-
raey
eht
gnirud
latipac erahs ytiuqe ni
segnahC
76.696,9
3202 hcraM 13 ta sa
ecnalaB
ytiuqe rehtO
)B(
erorC
`````
4202
hcraM 13 dedne raey
eht roF
ynapmoc
tnerap
eht
fo
srenwo
ot
elbatubirttA
sralucitraP
rehto
fo
smetI
sulprus
&
sevreseR
)ICO(emocni
evisneherpmoc
latoT
-noN
ytiuqe
rehtO
ngieroF
ytiuqE
deniateR
lareneG
hsa
ylF
fleS
/sdnoB
latipaC
rehtO
latipaC
gnillortnoc
elbatubirtta
ycnerruc
stnemurtsni
sgninrae
evreser
noitasilitu
ecnarusni
serutnebeD
noitpmeder
latipac
evreser
stseretni
fo
srenwo
ot
noitalsnart
hguorht
evreser
evreser
noitpmeder
evreser
-
evreser
)ICN(
tnerap
eht
evreser
ICO
dnuf
evreser
nommoc
ynapmoc
lortnoc
59.652,14,1
54.039,3
05.623,73,1
)88.09(
03.09
11.425,43
97.456,89
72.347
00.002
56.158,5
98.791
)62.951,5(
36.413,2
3202 lirpA 1 ta
sa ecnalaB
54.233,12
65.025
98.118,02
98.118,02
raey eht
rof tiforP
)16.42(
)84.2(
)31.22(
)57.91(
09.021
)82.321(
emocni evisneherpmoc
rehtO
48.703,12
80.815
67.987,02
)57.91(
09.021
16.886,02
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
emocni evisneherpmoc
latoT
62.202
22.281
40.02
-
40.02
dna noitanibmoc ssenisub
fo tcapmI
tseretni gnillortnoc-non
lanoitidda
fo lasopsid/ noitisiuqca
no gnisira
stnemtsujda rehto
& tseretni
-
-
32.599,1
)00.002(
)32.597,1(
sgninrae deniater
ot refsnarT
-
-
)29.77(
-
-
29.77
sgninrae deniater morf
refsnarT
28.571
28.571
28.571
hsa ylf ni )noitasilitu(
/ noiterccA
)52 etoN( )ten( dnuf
noitasilitu
)20.72(
)20.72(
)20.72(
tseretni gnillortnoc noN
ot refsnarT
)00.909,2(
)00.909,2(
)00.909,2(
)52 etoN(32-2202
YF rof diap dnedivid
laniF
)42.185,4(
)47.712(
)05.363,4(
)05.363,4(
)52
etoN(42-3202
YF rof diap dnedivid
miretnI
16.524,55,1
10.314,4
06.210,15,1
)36.011(
02.112
15.038,94
97.456,89
90.919
-
43.431,4
98.791
)62.951,5(
76.433,2
4202 hcraM 13 ta
sa ecnalaB
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024
````` Crore
Particulars Note For the year For the year
No. ended ended
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Other comprehensive income attributable to:
Owners of the Parent Company (22.13) (202.36)
Non-controlling interests (2.48) (0.64)
(24.61) (203.00)
Total comprehensive income attributable to:
Owners of the Parent Company 20,789.76 16,710.19
Non-controlling interests 518.08 208.16
21,307.84 16,918.35
Earnings per equity share attributable to owners of 62
the parent company (Par value ````` 10/- each)
Basic & Diluted (`) (including net movement in 21.46 17.44
regulatory deferral account balances)
Basic & Diluted (`) (excluding net movement in 20.43 17.87
regulatory deferral account balances)
Material accounting policy information 1
The accompanying notes 1 to 78 form an integral part of these financial statements.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
(Ritu Arora) (Jaikumar Srinivasan) (Gurdeep Singh)
Company Secretary Director (Finance) Chairman & Managing Director
DIN: 01220828 DIN: 00307037
This is the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss referred to in our report of even date
For Vinod Kumar & Associates For Goyal Parul & Co For M. C. Bhandari & Co.
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants
Firm Reg. No. 002304N Firm Reg. No. 016750N Firm Reg. No. 303002E
(Mukesh Dadhich) (Parul Goyal) (Amit Biswas)
Partner Partner Partner
M. No. 511741 M. No. 099172 M. No. 052296
For J K S S & Associates For Agasti & Associates For S.N. Kapur & Associates
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants
Firm Reg. No. 006836C Firm Reg. No. 313043E Firm Reg. No. 001545C
(Ram Babu) (B. Agasti) (S. N. Kapur) Partner Partner Partner M. No. 016151 M. No. 051026 M. No. 014335 Place: New Delhi
Dated: 24 May, 2024 Digitally signed by signatories
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024
````` Crore
Particulars For the year For the year
ended ended
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
A. CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Profit before tax and regulatory deferral account balances 27,141.45 24,330.59
Add: Net movements in regulatory deferral account balances 1,000.20 (413.12)
(net of tax)
Add: Tax on net movements in regulatory deferral account balances 214.19 (92.68)
Profit before tax including movement in regulatory deferral 28,355.84 23,824.79
account balances
Adjustment for:
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment expense 16,203.63 14,792.27
Provisions 864.55 753.86
Share of net profits of joint ventures accounted for using equity (1,635.60) (779.77)
method
On account of government grants 214.33 668.76 Deferred foreign currency fluctuation asset 78.84 (84.69)
Deferred income from foreign currency fluctuation 14.72 948.27
Regulatory deferral account debit balances (1,214.39) 505.80
Fly ash utilisation reserve fund 175.82 143.38
Finance costs 11,954.79 11,092.08
Unwinding of discount on vendor liabilities 93.42 63.98
Interest income/Late payment Surcharge/Income on investments (961.91) (918.04)
Dividend income (9.36) (6.96)
Provisions written back (560.73) (368.30)
Profit on de-recognition of property, plant and equipment (30.37) (31.80)
Loss on de-recognition of property, plant and equipment 220.67 168.55 25,408.41 26,947.39
Operating profit before working capital changes 53,764.25 50,772.18
Adjustment for:
Trade receivables (1,296.73) 3,806.23
Inventories (2,586.73) (3,004.98)
Trade payables, provisions, other financial liabilities and other (588.35) 3,461.28
liabilities
Loans, other financial assets and other assets (4,864.99) (3,807.28)
(9,336.80) 455.25
Cash generated from operations 44,427.45 51,227.43
Income taxes (paid) / refunded (3,642.86) (4,075.65)
Net cash from/(used in) operating activities - A 40,784.59 47,151.78
B. CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Purchase of property, plant and equipment & intangible assets (30,815.92) (24,818.52)
Disposal of property, plant and equipment & intangible assets 74.60 98.29
Redemption of Non convertible debentures 50.00 25.00 Investment in joint venture companies (net) (219.40) (920.18) Interest income/Late payment Surcharge/Income on investments 630.98 576.74 received Dividend received from other investments 9.36 6.96 Income tax paid on income from investing activities (414.55) (434.92) Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents (1,456.44) (678.50)
Net cash from/(used in) investing activities - B (32,141.37) (26,145.13)
476 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 477
erorC
`
3202
hcraM 13 dedne raey eht
roF
ynapmoc
tnerap
eht
fo srenwo
ot
elbatubirttA
sralucitraP
rehto
fo
smetI
sulprus
& sevreseR
)ICO(emocni
evisneherpmoc
latoT
-noN
ytiuqe
rehtO
ngieroF
ytiuqE
deniateR
lareneG
hsa
ylF
fleS
/sdnoB
latipaC
rehtO
latipaC
gnillortnoc
elbatubirtta
ycnerruc
stnemurtsni
sgninrae
evreser
noitasilitu
ecnarusni
serutnebeD
noitpmeder
latipac
evreser
stseretni
fo
srenwo
ot
noitalsnart
hguorht
evreser
evreser
noitpmeder
evreser
-
evreser
)ICN(
tnerap
eht
evreser
ICO
dnuf
evreser
nommoc
ynapmoc
lortnoc
84.734,92,1
14.067,3
70.776,52,1
45.03
07.68
11.651,42
97.456,89
98.995
00.002
27.124,6
98.791
)62.951,5(
96.884
2202 lirpA 1 ta sa ecnalaB
53.121,71
08.802
55.219,61
-
-
55.219,61
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
raey eht rof tiforP
)00.302(
)46.0(
)63.202(
)24.121(
06.3
)45.48(
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
emocni evisneherpmoc rehtO
53.819,61
61.802
91.017,61
)24.121(
06.3
10.828,61
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
emocni evisneherpmoc latoT
75.500,2
36.971
49.528,1
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
49.528,1
lanoitidda
dna
noitanibmoc ssenisub fo tcapmI
/noitisiuqca
no gnisira tseretni gnillortnoc-non
stnemtsujda
rehto & tseretni fo lasopsid
-
-
-
-
-
75.826
-
-
-
)75.826(
-
-
-
sgninrae deniater ot refsnarT
-
-
-
-
-
)05.85(
-
-
-
05.85
-
-
-
sgninrae deniater morf refsnarT
83.341
-
83.341
-
-
-
-
83.341
-
-
-
-
-
noitasilitu
hsa ylf ni )noitasilitu( / noiterccA )52 etoN( )ten( dnuf
)57.621,3(
)57.712(
)00.909,2(
-
-
)00.909,2(
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
)52
etoN(
22-1202 YF rof diap dnedivid laniF
)80.121,4(
-
)80.121,4(
-
-
)80.121,4(
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
)52
etoN(
32-2202
YF rof diap dnedivid miretnI
59.652,14,1
54.039,3
05.623,73,1
)88.09(
03.09
11.425,43
97.456,89
72.347
00.002
56.158,5
98.791
)62.951,5(
36.413,2
3202 hcraM 13 ta sa ecnalaB
.snalp
tifeneb
denifed
fo tnemerusaemer
stneserper
)erorc
45.48
`
:3202
hcraM
13
( erorc
82.321
````` ot
gnitnuoma
sgninrae
deniater
ni
detsujda
emocni evisneherpmoc rehtO :etoN
srotceriD
fo draoB
eht
fo flaheb
no
dna
roF
)hgniS
peedruG(
)nasavinirS
ramukiaJ(
)arorA
utiR(
rotceriD
gniganaM
&
namriahC
)ecnaniF(
rotceriD
yraterceS
ynapmoC
73070300
:NID
82802210
:NID
etad
neve
fo
troper
ruo
ni ot
derrefer
ytiuqE
ni
segnahC
fo tnemetatS
detadilosnoC
eht
si
sihT
.oC
& iradnahB
.C
.M
roF
oC &
luraP
layoG
roF
setaicossA
&
ramuK doniV roF
stnatnuoccA
deretrahC
stnatnuoccA
deretrahC
stnatnuoccA
deretrahC
E200303
.oN .geR
mriF
N057610
.oN
.geR
mriF
N403200
.oN .geR mriF
)sawsiB
timA(
)layoG
luraP(
)hcihdaD
hsekuM(
rentraP
rentraP
rentraP
692250
.oN
.M
271990
.oN .M
147115
.oN .M
setaicossA
& rupaK
.N.S
roF
setaicossA
&
itsagA
roF
setaicossA
& S S K J roF
stnatnuoccA
deretrahC
stnatnuoccA
deretrahC
stnatnuoccA
deretrahC
C545100
.oN .geR
mriF
E340313
.oN
.geR
mriF
C638600
.oN .geR mriF
)rupaK
.N
.S(
)itsagA
.B(
)ubaB
maR(
rentraP
rentraP
rentraP
533410
.oN
.M
620150
.oN .M
151610
.oN .M ihleD weN :ecalP 4202 ,yaM 42 :detaD seirotangis yb dengis yllatigiD
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024
````` Crore
For the year ended 31 March 2023 ` Crore
Particulars For the year For the year
Particulars Non-current Finance lease Current Bills
ended ended
borrowings* obligations borrowings discounted
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Opening balance as at 1 April 2022 2,03,678.06 1,151.30 8,530.47 8,349.49
C. CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Proceeds from non-current borrowings 31,631.65 28,325.97 Cash flows during the year (11,019.94) (230.10) 4,343.48 (7,062.30)
Repayment of non-current borrowings (22,439.83) (24,523.66) Non-cash changes due to:
Proceeds /repayments of current borrowings (Net) 5,944.75 (2,718.82) - Acquisitions under finance lease - 899.60 - -
Payment of lease liabilities (130.89) (230.10)
- Equity shares issued (150.68) - - -
Interest paid (15,831.78) (14,822.25)
- Interest on borrowings 15,006.58 - - -
Dividend paid (7,419.43) (7,247.91)
- Variation in exchange rates 2,295.49 - - -
Net cash from/(used in) financing activities - C (8,245.53) (21,216.77)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (A+B+C) 397.69 (210.12) - Transaction costs on borrowings (40.68) - - -
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 465.65 675.77 Closing balance as at 31 March 2023 2,09,768.83 1,820.80 12,873.95 1,287.19
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 863.34 465.65
* Includes current maturities of non-current borrowings and interest accrued thereon, refer Note 27 and Note 33.
Notes:
1 Statement of cash flows is prepared in accordance with the indirect method prescribed in Ind AS 7-‘Statement of cash
flows’.
2 Cash and cash equivalents consist of cheques, drafts, stamps in hand, balances with banks and deposits with original For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
maturity of upto three months.
3 Reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents: (Ritu Arora) (Jaikumar Srinivasan) (Gurdeep Singh)
Company Secretary Director (Finance) Chairman & Managing Director
Cash and cash equivalents as per Note 16 863.34 465.65
DIN: 01220828 DIN: 00307037
4 Refer Note 68 for details of undrawn borrowing facilities that may be available for future operating activities and to
settle capital commitments.
This is the Consolidated statement of Cash Flows referred to in our report of even date
5 Reconciliation between the opening and closing balances in the Balance Sheet for liabilities arising from financing activities:
For the year ended 31 March 2024 ````` Crore For Vinod Kumar & Associates For Goyal Parul & Co For M. C. Bhandari & Co.
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants
Particulars Non-current Finance lease Current Bills
Firm Reg. No. 002304N Firm Reg. No. 016750N Firm Reg. No. 303002E
borrowings* obligations borrowings discounted
Opening balance as at 1 April 2023 2,09,768.83 1,820.80 12,873.95 1,287.19 (Mukesh Dadhich) (Parul Goyal) (Amit Biswas)
Cash flows during the year (6,639.96) 400.77 5,257.45 687.30 Partner Partner Partner
Non-cash changes due to: M. No. 511741 M. No. 099172 M. No. 052296
- Acquisitions under finance lease - (130.89) - -
For J K S S & Associates For Agasti & Associates For S.N. Kapur & Associates
- Equity shares issued 46.91 - - -
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants
- Interest on borrowings 15,785.06 - - - Firm Reg. No. 006836C Firm Reg. No. 313043E Firm Reg. No. 001545C
- Variation in exchange rates (1,256.17) - - -
(Ram Babu) (B. Agasti) (S. N. Kapur)
- Transaction costs on borrowings 20.62 - - -
Partner Partner Partner
Closing balance as at 31 March 2024 2,17,725.29 2,090.68 18,131.40 1,974.49
M. No. 016151 M. No. 051026 M. No. 014335
Place: New Delhi
Dated: 24 May, 2024
Digitally signed by signatories
478 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 479
Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements 1. Basis of consolidation
The financial statements of subsidiary companies and joint venture companies are drawn up to the same reporting
Note 1. Group Information and Material Accounting Policy Information date as of the Company for the purpose of consolidation.
A. Reporting entity 1.1 Subsidiaries
NTPC Limited (the ‘Company’ or ‘Parent Company’) is a Company domiciled in India and limited by shares (CIN: Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. The Group “controls” an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to,
L40101DL1975GOI007966). The shares of the Company are listed and traded on the National Stock Exchange of India variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns rough its power over
Limited (NSE) and BSE Limited (BSE) in India. The address of the Company’s registered office is NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE the entity. The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date
Complex, 7 Institutional Area, Lodhi Road, New Delhi - 110003.These consolidated financial statements comprise the on which control commences until the date on which control ceases.
financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries (referred to collectively as the ‘Group’) and the Group’s Non-controlling interests (NCI) are measured initially at their proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net
interest in its joint ventures. The Group is primarily involved in the generation and sale of bulk power to State Power assets at the date of acquisition. A change in the Group’s interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control
Utilities. Other business of the Group includes providing consultancy, project management & supervision, energy are accounted for as equity transactions.
trading, oil & gas exploration and coal mining.
When the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it derecognises the assets and liabilities of the subsidiary, and any
B. Basis of preparation related NCI and other components of equity. Any resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss. Any interest
retained in the former subsidiary is measured at fair value when control is lost.
1. Statement of Compliance
For detailed disclosure on Group’s subsidiaries, refer note no 71.
These consolidated financial statements are prepared on going concern basis following accrual system of accounting
1.2 Joint ventures
and comply with the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) prescribed under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013
read with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 as amended, and other relevant provisions of the A joint venture is an arrangement in which the Group has joint control, whereby the Group has rights to the net assets
Companies Act, 2013 and the provisions of the Electricity Act, 2003 to the extent applicable. of the arrangement, rather than rights to assets and obligations for its liabilities. Interests in joint venture are accounted
for using the equity method. They are initially recognised at cost, which includes transaction costs. Subsequent to
These financial statements were approved for issue by the Board of Directors in its meeting held on 24 May 2024.
initial recognition, the consolidated financial statements include the Group’s share of the profit or loss and OCI of
2. Basis of measurement equity accounted investees, until the date on which joint control ceases.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for: For detailed disclosure on Group’s joint ventures, refer note no 71.
• Certain financial assets and liabilities (including derivative instruments) that are measured at fair value (refer
2. Property, plant and equipment
serial no. C. 22 of accounting policy regarding financial instruments); and
2.1. Initial recognition and measurement
• Plan assets in the case of employees defined benefit plans that are measured at fair value.
An item of property, plant and equipment is recognized as an asset if and only if it is probable that future economic
The methods used to measure fair values are discussed in notes to the financial statements.
benefits associated with the item will flow to the and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
3. Functional and presentation currency
Items of property, plant and equipment are initially recognized at cost. Subsequent measurement is done at cost less
These consolidated financial statements are presented in Indian Rupees (`) which is the Company’s functional currency.
accumulated depreciation/amortization and accumulated impairment losses.
All financial information presented in (`) has been rounded to the nearest crore (up to two decimals), except when
When parts of an item of property, plant and equipment that are significant in value and have different useful lives as
indicated otherwise.
compared to the main asset, they are recognized separately.
4. Current and non-current classification
Deposits, payments/liabilities made provisionally towards compensation, rehabilitation and other expenses relatable
The Group classifies its assets and liabilities as current/non-current in the balance sheet as per the requirements of Ind
to land in possession are treated as cost of land.
AS 1 and considering 12 months period as normal operating cycle.
In the case of assets put to use, where final settlement of bills with contractors is yet to be effected, capitalization is
C. Material accounting policies done on provisional basis subject to necessary adjustment in the year of final settlement.
Assets and systems common to more than one generating unit are capitalized on the basis of engineering estimates/
A summary of the material accounting policies applied in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are
assessments.
as given below. These accounting policies have been applied consistently to all periods presented in the consolidated
financial statements. It allows for an understanding as to how material transactions, other events and conditions are Items of spare parts, stand-by equipment and servicing equipment which meet the definition of property, plant and
reported. It also describes: (a) judgements, apart from those involving estimations, that management makes in applying equipment are capitalized. Other spare parts are carried as inventory and recognized as expense in the statement of
the policies that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the Consolidated Financial Statements; profit and loss on consumption.
and (b) estimations, including assumptions about the future, that management makes in applying the policies.
The acquisition or construction of some items of property, plant and equipment although not directly increasing the
The Group has elected to utilize the option under Ind AS 101 - ‘First time adoption of Indian Accounting Standards’ by future economic benefits of any particular existing item of property, plant and equipment, may be necessary for the
not applying the provisions of Ind AS 16 - ‘Property, plant and equipment’ & Ind AS 38 - ‘Intangible assets’ retrospectively Group to obtain future economic benefits from its other assets. Such items are recognized as property, plant and
and continue to use the previous GAAP carrying amount as a deemed cost under Ind AS at the date of transition to Ind equipment.
AS i.e. 1 April 2015. Therefore, the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets as per the
Excess of net sale proceed of items produced while bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary for it to
previous GAAP as at 1 April 2015, i.e. the Group’s date of transition to Ind AS, were maintained on transition to Ind AS.
480 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 481
be capable of operating in the manner intended by management is deducted from the directly attributable cost Capital spares are depreciated considering the useful life ranging between 2 to 40 years based on technical assessment.
considered as part of an item of property, plant and equipment.
Right-of-use land and buildings relating to generation of electricity business governed by CERC Tariff Regulations are
2.2. Subsequent costs fully amortized on straight line method over the lease period or life of the related plant whichever is lower following
the rates and methodology notified by the CERC Tariff Regulations.
Subsequent expenditure is recognized in the carrying amount of the asset when it is probable that future economic
benefits deriving from the cost incurred will flow to the enterprise and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. Right-of-use land and buildings relating to generation of electricity business which are not governed by CERC tariff
Regulations are fully amortized on straight line method over the lease period or life of the related plant whichever is
Expenditure on major inspection and overhauls of generating unit is capitalized, when it meets the asset recognition
lower.
criteria. Any remaining carrying amount of the cost of the previous inspection and overhaul is derecognized.
Right-of-use land and buildings relating to corporate, and other offices are fully amortized on straight line method over
The cost of replacing major part of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognized in the carrying amount of
lease period or twenty-five years whichever is lower following the rates and methodology notified by the CERC Tariff
the item if it is probable that the future economic benefits embodied within the part will flow to the Group and its cost
Regulations.
can be measured reliably. The carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognized regardless of whether the replaced
part has been depreciated separately. If it is not practicable to determine the carrying amount of the replaced part, the Land acquired under Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition & Development) Act, 1957 and Other right-of-use land acquired
Group uses the cost of the replacement as an indication of what the cost of replaced part was at the time it was for mining business are amortized on straight line method over the right of use period or balance life of the project
acquired or constructed. The costs of the day-to-day servicing of property, plant and equipment are recognized in the whichever is lower.
statement of profit and loss as and when incurred.
In respect of integrated coal mines, the mines closure, site restoration and decommissioning obligations are amortized
2.3. Decommissioning costs on straight line method over the balance life of the mine on commercial declaration.
The present value of the expected cost for the decommissioning of the asset after its use is included in the cost of the Depreciation on additions to/deductions from property, plant and equipment during the year is charged on pro-rata
respective asset if the recognition criteria for a provision are met. basis from/up to the month in which the asset is available for use/sale, disposal or earmarked for disposal.
2.4. De-recognition Where the cost of depreciable assets has undergone a change during the year due to increase/decrease in long-term
liabilities (recognized up to 31 March 2016) on account of exchange fluctuation and price adjustment change in duties
Property, plant and equipment is derecognized when no future economic benefits are expected from their use or upon
or similar factors, the unamortized balance of such asset is charged off prospectively over the remaining useful life
their disposal. Gains and losses on de-recognition of an item of property, plant and equipment are determined as the
determined following the applicable accounting policies relating to depreciation/amortization.
difference between sale proceeds from disposal, if any, and the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment and
are recognized in the statement of profit and loss. Where it is probable that future economic benefits deriving from the expenditure incurred will flow to the Group and
the cost of the item can be measured reliably, subsequent expenditure on a property, plant and equipment along-with
2.5. Depreciation/amortization
its unamortized depreciable amount is charged off prospectively over the revised useful life determined by technical
Depreciation on the assets of the generation of electricity business, integrated coal mining and on the assets of Corporate assessment.
& other offices of the Group, covered under Part B of Schedule II of the Companies Act, 2013, is charged on straight-
The residual values, useful lives and method of depreciation of assets other than the assets of generation of electricity
line method following the rates and methodology notified by the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (CERC)
business and integrated coal mines governed by CERC Tariff Regulations, are reviewed at each financial year end and
Tariff Regulations.
adjusted prospectively, wherever required.
Depreciation on the assets of the oil & gas exploration, power plants not governed by CERC Tariff Regulations, investment
Depreciation of an asset ceases at the earlier of the date that the asset is classified as held for sale (or included in a
properties and consultancy business is charged on straight-line method following the useful life specified in Schedule
disposal group that is classified as held for sale) in accordance with Ind AS 105 and the date that the asset is derecognised.
II of the Companies Act, 2013 except for the assets referred below.
Refer policy no. C.16.1 in respect of depreciation/amortization of right-of-use assets other than land and buildings.
Depreciation on the following assets is provided on their estimated useful lives, which are different from the useful
lives as prescribed under Schedule II to the Companies Act, 2013, ascertained on the basis of technical evaluation/
3. Capital work-in-progress
assessment:
Cost incurred for property, plant and equipment that are not ready for their intended use as on the reporting date, is
a) Kutcha roads 2 years
classified under capital work-in-progress.
b) Enabling works- Enabling works – residential and non-residential buildings, including 5-15 years
The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials & direct labour, any other costs directly attributable
their internal electrification, water supply, sewerage & drainage works, railway sidings,
to bringing the assets to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended
aerodromes, helipads and airstrips
by management and the borrowing costs attributable to the acquisition or construction of qualifying asset.
c) Personal computers & laptops including peripherals 3 years Expenses directly attributable to construction of property, plant and equipment incurred till they are ready for their
intended use are identified and allocated on a systematic basis on the cost of related assets.
d) Temporary erections including wooden structures 1 year
Deposit works/cost plus contracts are accounted for on the basis of statements of account received from the contractors.
e) Energy saving electrical appliances and fittings 2-7 years
Unsettled liabilities for price variation/exchange rate variation in case of contracts are accounted for on estimated
f) Solar/wind power plants which are not governed by CERC Tariff Regulations 25 years
basis as per terms of the contracts.
g) Furniture, Fixture, Office equipment and Communication equipment 5-15 years
The Group periodically reviews its Capital work-in-progress and in case of abandoned works, provision for unserviceable
cost is provided for, as required, basis the technical assessment. Further, provisions made are reviewed at regular
Major overhaul and inspection costs which have been capitalized are depreciated over the period until the next scheduled
intervals and in case work has been subsequently taken up, then provision earlier provided for is written back to the
outage or actual major inspection/overhaul, whichever is earlier.
extent the same is no longer required.
482 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 483
Net pre-commissioning income/expenditure is adjusted directly in the cost of related assets and systems. that the mining property will provide sufficient and sustainable return relative to its perceived risks and therefore it is
considered probable that future economic benefits will flow to the Group).
4. Intangible assets and intangible assets under development
On the date of commercial operation, the assets under capital work-in-progress are classified as a component of property,
4.1. Initial recognition and measurement plant and equipment under ‘Mining property’.
Intangible assets that are acquired by the Group, which have finite useful lives, are recognized at cost. Subsequent Gains and losses on de-recognition of assets referred above, are determined as the difference between the net disposal
measurement is done at cost less accumulated amortization and accumulated impairment losses. proceeds, if any, and the carrying amount of respective assets and are recognized in the statement of profit and loss.
4.2. Subsequent costs 6.1. Stripping activity expense/adjustment
Subsequent expenditure is recognized as an increase in the carrying amount of the asset when it is probable that Expenditure incurred on removal of mine waste materials (overburden) necessary to extract the coal reserves is referred
future economic benefits deriving from the cost incurred will flow to the enterprise and the cost of the item can be to as stripping cost. The Group has to incur such expenses over the life of the mine as technically estimated.
measured reliably.
Cost of stripping is charged on technically evaluated average stripping ratio at each mine with due adjustment for
4.3. De-recognition stripping activity asset and ratio-variance account after the mines are brought to revenue.
An intangible asset is derecognized when no future economic benefits are expected from their use or upon their Net of the balances of stripping activity asset and ratio variance at the Balance Sheet date is shown as ‘Stripping
disposal. Gain or loss on de-recognition of an intangible asset is determined as the difference between the net disposal activity adjustment’ under the head ‘Non-current assets/Non-current provisions’ as the case may be, and adjusted as
proceeds, if any, and the carrying amount of intangible assets and are recognized in the statement of profit and loss. provided in the CERC Tariff Regulations.
4.4. Amortization 6.2. Mines closure, site restoration and decommissioning obligations
Cost of software recognized as intangible asset, is amortized on straight-line method over a period of legal right to use The Group’s obligations for land reclamation and decommissioning of structure consist of spending at mines in
or 3 years, whichever is less. accordance with the guidelines from Ministry of Coal, Government of India. The Group estimates its obligations for
mine closure, site restoration and decommissioning based on the detailed calculation and technical assessment of the
The amortization period and the amortization method of intangible assets with a finite useful life is reviewed at each
amount and timing of future cash spending for the required work and provided for as per approved mine closure plan.
financial year end and adjusted prospectively, wherever required.
The estimate of expenses is escalated for inflation and then discounted at a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current
5. Regulatory deferral account balances market assessment of the time value of money and risk, such that the amount of provision reflects the present value of
expenditure required to settle the obligation. The Group recognizes a corresponding asset under property, plant and
Expense/income recognized in the statement of profit and loss to the extent recoverable from or payable to the
equipment as a separate item for the cost associated with such obligation. Upon commercial declaration of mines, the
beneficiaries in subsequent periods as per CERC Tariff Regulations are recognized as ‘Regulatory deferral account
mine closure, site restoration and decommissioning obligations are amortized on straight line method over the balance
balances’.
life of the mine.
Regulatory deferral account balances are adjusted in the year in which the same become recoverable from or payable
The value of the obligation is progressively increased over time as the effect of discounting unwinds and the same is
to the beneficiaries.
recognized as finance costs.
Regulatory deferral account balances are evaluated at each balance sheet date to ensure that the underlying activities
Further, a specific escrow account is maintained for this purpose as per approved mine closure plan. The progressive
meet the recognition criteria and it is probable that future economic benefits associated with such balances will flow
mine closure expenses incurred on year to year basis, forming part of the total mine closure obligation, are initially
to the Group. If these criteria are not met, the regulatory deferral account balances are derecognized.
recognized as receivable from escrow account and thereafter adjusted with the obligation in the year in which the
6. Development expenditure on coal mines amount is withdrawn from escrow account after concurrence of the certifying agency.
When proved reserves are determined and development of mines/project is sanctioned, exploration and evaluation
7. Borrowing costs
assets are transferred to ‘Development of coal mines’ under ‘Capital work-in-progress’.
Borrowing costs consist of (a) interest expense calculated using the effective interest method as described in Ind AS
Subsequent expenditure is capitalized only where it either enhances the economic benefits of the development/
109 – ‘Financial Instruments’ (b) interest expense on lease liabilities recognized in accordance with Ind AS 116– ‘Leases’
producing asset or replaces part of the existing development/producing asset. Any remaining costs associated with the
and(c) exchange differences arising from foreign currency borrowings to the extent that they are regarded as an
part replaced are expensed.
adjustment to interest costs.
The development expenditure capitalized is net of value of coal extracted during development phase.
Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction/exploration/ development or erection of
Date of commercial operation of integrated coal mines shall be determined on the occurring of earliest of following qualifying assets are capitalized as part of cost of such asset until such time the assets are substantially ready for their
milestones as provided in CERC tariff regulations: intended use. Qualifying assets are assets which necessarily take substantial period of time to get ready for their
intended use or sale.
1) The first date of the year succeeding the year in which 25% of the peak rated capacity as per the mining plan is
achieved; or When the Group borrows funds specifically for the purpose of obtaining a qualifying asset, the borrowing costs incurred
are capitalized. When Group borrows funds generally and uses them for the purpose of obtaining a qualifying asset,
2) The first date of the year succeeding the year in which the value of production exceeds the total expenditure in
the capitalization of the borrowing costs is computed based on the weighted average cost of all borrowings that are
that year; or
outstanding during the period and used for the acquisition, construction/exploration or erection of the qualifying
3) The date of two years from the date of commencement of production; asset. However, borrowing costs applicable to borrowings made specifically for the purpose of obtaining a qualifying
asset, are excluded from this calculation, until substantially all the activities necessary to prepare that asset for its
The above is subject to commercial readiness to yield production on a sustainable basis (i.e. when the Group determines
intended use or sale are complete.
484 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 485
Income earned on temporary investment made out of the borrowings pending utilization for expenditure on the Contingent assets are possible assets that arise from past events and whose existence will be confirmed only by the
qualifying assets is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalization. occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of the Group.
Contingent assets are disclosed in the financial statements when inflow of economic benefits is probable on the basis
Capitalization of borrowing costs ceases when substantially all the activities necessary to prepare the qualifying assets
of judgment of management. These are assessed continually to ensure that developments are appropriately reflected
for their intended use are complete.
in the financial statements.
Other borrowing costs are recognized as an expense in the year in which they are incurred.
Present obligations arising under onerous contracts are recognised and measured as provisions. An onerous contract is
The Group can incur borrowing costs during an extended period in which it suspends the activities necessary to prepare considered to exist where the Group has a contract under which the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations
an asset for its intended use or sale. Such costs are costs of holding partially completed assets and is not eligible for under the contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be received from the contract.
capitalisation. However, the Group does not normally suspend capitalising borrowing costs during a period when it
carries out substantial technical and administrative work. The Group also does not suspend capitalising borrowing 12. Foreign currency transactions and translation
costs when a temporary delay is a necessary part of the process of getting an asset ready for its intended use or sale.
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the functional currency spot exchange rates at the date the
transaction first qualifies for recognition.
8. Inventories
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies outstanding at the reporting date are translated at
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Cost is determined on weighted average basis.
the functional currency spot rates of exchange prevailing on that date. Exchange differences arising on settlement or
The diminution in the value of obsolete/ unserviceable/surplus stores and spares and non-moving unserviceable translation of monetary items are recognized in the statement of profit and loss in the year in which it arises with the
inventories is ascertained on review and provided for. exception that exchange differences on long term monetary items related to acquisition of property, plant and equipment
recognized up to 31 March 2016 are adjusted to the carrying cost of property, plant and equipment.
Transit and handling losses of coal as per Group’s norms are included in cost of coal.
Non-monetary items denominated in foreign currency which are measured in terms of historical cost are recorded
9. Government grants
using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction. In case of advance consideration received or paid in a foreign
Government grants are recognized when there is reasonable assurance that they will be received and the Group will currency, the date of transaction for the purpose of determining the exchange rate to use on initial recognition of the
comply with the conditions associated with the grant. Grants that compensate the Group for the cost of depreciable related asset, expense or income (or part of it), is when the Group initially recognizes the non-monetary asset or non-
asset are recognized as income in statement of profit and loss on a systematic basis over the period and in the proportion monetary liability arising from the payment or receipt of advance consideration.
in which depreciation is charged. Grants that compensate the Group for expenses incurred are recognized over the
The results and financial position of foreign operations (none of which has the currency of a hyperinflationary economy)
period in which the related costs are incurred and the same is deducted from the related expenses.
that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency
as follows:
10. Fly ash utilization reserve fund
• Assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet
Proceeds from sale of ash/ash products along-with income on investment of surplus fund are transferred to ‘Fly ash
utilization reserve fund’ in terms of provisions of gazette notifications issued by Ministry of Environment and Forests & • Income and expenses are translated at average exchange rates and
Climate Change, Government of India, from time to time. The fund is utilized towards expenditure on development of • All resulting exchange differences are recognized in OCI.
infrastructure/facilities, promotion & facilitation activities for use of fly ash.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of any net investment in foreign entities are
recognized in OCI. The associated exchange differences are reclassified to profit or loss, as part of the gain or loss on
11. Provisions, contingent liabilities, and contingent assets
disposal of the net investment.
A provision is recognized if, as a result of a past event, the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation that can
be estimated reliably, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. 13. Revenue
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash
Group’s revenues arise from sale and trading of energy, consultancy, project management & supervision services,
flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the
income on assets under lease, supply of coal from integrated coal mines and other income. Revenue from other income
liability. When discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognized as a finance
comprises interest from banks, employees, contractors etc., dividend from investments in joint venture & subsidiary
cost.
companies, dividend from mutual fund investments, surcharge received from beneficiaries for delayed payments, sale
The amount recognized as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation of scrap, other miscellaneous income, etc.
at reporting date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
13.1 Revenue from sale of energy
When some or all of the economic benefits required to settle a provision are expected to be recovered from a third
The majority of the Group’s operations in India are regulated under the Electricity Act, 2003. Accordingly, the CERC
party, the receivable is recognized as an asset if it is virtually certain that reimbursement will be received and the
determines the tariff for the Group’s power plants based on the norms prescribed in the tariff regulations as applicable
amount of the receivable can be measured reliably. The expense relating to a provision is presented in the statement
from time to time. Tariff is based on the capital cost incurred for a specific power plant and primarily comprises two
of profit and loss net of reimbursement, if any.
components: capacity charge i.e. a fixed charge that includes depreciation, return on equity, interest on working capital,
Contingent liabilities are possible obligations that arise from past events and whose existence will only be confirmed operating & maintenance expenses, interest on loan and energy charge i.e. a variable charge primarily based on fuel
by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more future events not wholly within the control of the Group. Where costs. Tariff for Group’s integrated coal mines are also determined by CERC based on the norms prescribed in the CERC
it is not probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required, or the amount cannot be estimated reliably, Tariff Regulations.
the obligation is disclosed as a contingent liability, unless the probability of outflow of economic benefits is remote.
Revenue from sale of energy is accounted for based on tariff rates approved by the CERC (except items indicated as
Contingent liabilities are disclosed on the basis of judgment of the management/independent experts. These are
provisional) as modified by the orders of Appellate Tribunal for Electricity to the extent applicable. In case of power
reviewed at each balance sheet date and are adjusted to reflect the current management estimate.
486 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 487
stations where the tariff rates are yet to be approved/items indicated provisional by the CERC in their orders, provisional Revenue from rentals and operating leases is recognized on an accrual basis in accordance with the substance of the
rates are adopted considering the applicable CERC Tariff Regulations. Revenue from sale of energy is recognized once relevant agreement.
the electricity has been delivered to the beneficiary and is measured through a regular review of usage meters.
The interest/surcharge on late payment/overdue trade receivables for sale of energy is recognized when no significant
Beneficiaries are billed on a periodic and regular basis. As at each reporting date, revenue from sale of energy includes
uncertainty as to measurability or collectability exists.
an accrual for sales delivered to beneficiaries but not yet billed i.e. contract assets/ unbilled revenue.
Interest/surcharge recoverable on advances to contractors and suppliers as well as warranty claims wherever there is
The incentives/disincentives are accounted for based on the norms notified/approved by the CERC as per principles
uncertainty of realization/acceptance are not treated as accrued and are therefore, accounted for on receipt/acceptance.
enunciated in Ind AS 115 - ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’. In cases of power stations where the same have
not been notified/approved, incentives/disincentives are accounted for on provisional basis. Dividend income is recognized in profit or loss only when the right to receive is established, it is probable that the
economic benefits associated with the dividend will flow to the Group, and the amount of the dividend can be measured
Part of revenue from energy sale where CERC tariff Regulations are not applicable is recognized based on the rates,
reliably.
terms & conditions mutually agreed with the beneficiaries and trading of power through power exchanges.
14. Employee benefits
Exchange differences arising from settlement/translation of monetary items denominated in foreign currency to the
extent recoverable from or payable to the beneficiaries in subsequent periods as per the CERC Tariff Regulations are 14.1. Defined contribution plans
accounted as ‘Regulatory deferred account balances’ and such balances are adjusted in the year in which the same
A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan under which an entity pays fixed contributions to
becomes recoverable/payable to the beneficiaries.
separate entities and will have no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts. Obligations for contributions
Exchange differences on account of translation of foreign currency borrowings recognized up to 31 March 2016, to the to defined contribution plans are recognized as an employee benefits expense in statement of profit and loss in the
extent recoverable from or payable to the beneficiaries in subsequent periods as per the CERC Tariff Regulations are period during which services are rendered by employees. Prepaid contributions are recognized as an asset to the
accounted as ‘Deferred foreign currency fluctuation asset’ with corresponding credit to ‘Deferred income from foreign extent that a cash refund or a reduction in future payments is available. Contributions to a defined contribution plan
currency fluctuation’. Deferred income from foreign currency fluctuation account is amortized in the proportion in that are due after more than 12 months after the end of the period in which the employees render the service are
which depreciation is charged on such exchange differences and same is adjusted against depreciation expense. Fair discounted to their present value.
value changes in respect of forward exchange contracts for derivatives recoverable from/payable to the beneficiaries
For detailed disclosure on Group’s defined contribution schemes, refer note no 58.
as per the CERC Tariff Regulations, are recognized in sales.
14.2. Defined benefit plans
Revenue from sale of energy through trading is recognized based on the rates, terms & conditions mutually agreed
A defined benefit plan is a post-employment benefit plan other than a defined contribution plan. The Group’s liability
with the beneficiaries as per the guidelines issued by Ministry of New and Renewable Energy, Government of India.
towards gratuity, pension scheme at two of the stations in respect of taken over employees from the erstwhile state
Rebates allowed to beneficiaries as early payment incentives are deducted from the amount of revenue.
government power utility, post-retirement medical facility(PRMF), baggage allowance for settlement at home town
Revenue from sale of energy saving certificates is accounted for as and when sold. after retirement, farewell gift on retirement and provident fund scheme to the extent of interest liability on provident
fund contribution are in the nature of defined benefit plans.
13.2. Revenue from services
For detailed disclosure on Group’s defined benefit schemes, refer note no 58.
Revenue from consultancy, project management and supervision services rendered is measured based on the
consideration that is specified in a contract with a customer or is expected to be received in exchange for the services, The Group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the
which is determined on output method and excludes amounts collected on behalf of third parties. The Group recognizes amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods; that
revenue when the performance obligation is satisfied, which typically occurs when control over the services is transferred benefit is discounted to determine its present value. The fair value of any plan assets is deducted. The discount rate is
to a customer. based on the prevailing market yields of Indian government securities as at the reporting date that have maturity dates
approximating the terms of the Group’s obligations and that are denominated in the same currency in which the
Reimbursement of expenses is recognized as other income, as per the terms of the service contracts.
benefits are expected to be paid.
Contract modifications are accounted for when additions, deletions or changes are approved either to the contract
The actuarial calculation is performed annually by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method. When
scope or contract price. The accounting for modifications of contracts involves assessing whether the services added to
the calculation results in a benefit to the Group, the recognized asset is limited to the present value of economic
an existing contract are distinct and whether the pricing is at the standalone selling price. Services added that are not
benefits available in the form of any future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan. An
distinct are accounted for on a cumulative catch up basis, while those that are distinct are accounted for prospectively,
economic benefit is available to the Group if it is realizable during the life of the plan, or on settlement of the plan
either as a separate contract, if the additional services are priced at the standalone selling price, or as a termination of
liabilities. Remeasurement comprising actuarial gain and losses, return on plan assets (excluding the amount included
the existing contract and creation of a new contract if not priced at the standalone selling price.
in net interest on the net defined liability) & effect of asset ceiling (excluding the amount included in net interest on
13.3. Other income the net defined liability) and the same are recognized in the Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) in the period in which
they arise.
Interest income is recognized, when no significant uncertainty as to measurability or collectability exist, on a time
proportion basis taking into account the amount outstanding and the applicable interest rate, using the effective Past service costs are recognized in statement of profit and loss on the earlier of the date of the plan amendment or
interest rate method (EIR). For debt instruments measured either at amortized cost or at fair value through other curtailment, and the date that the Group recognizes related restructuring costs. If a plan amendment, curtailment or
comprehensive income (OCI), interest income is recognized using the EIR to the gross carrying amount of the financial settlement occurs, the current service cost and the net interest for the period after the re-measurement are determined
asset and included in other income in the statement of profit and loss. For purchased or originated credit-impaired using the assumptions used for the re-measurement.
(POCI) financial assets interest income is recognized by calculating the credit-adjusted EIR and applying that rate to the
14.3. Other long-term employee benefits
amortized cost of the asset.
Benefits under the Group’s leave encashment, long-service award and economic rehabilitation scheme constitute
Insurance claims for loss of profit are accounted for in the year of acceptance. Other insurance claims are accounted
other long term employee benefits.
for based on certainty of realization.
488 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 489
The Group’s net obligation in respect of these long-term employee benefits is calculated separately for each plan by Deferred tax assets are not recognized for deductible temporary differences between the carrying amount and tax
estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior bases of investments in subsidiaries and interest in joint arrangements where it is not probable that the differences will
periods; that benefit is discounted to determine its present value and the fair value of any related assets is deducted. reverse in the foreseeable future or taxable profit will not be available against which the temporary difference can be
The discount rate is based on the prevailing market yields of Indian government securities as at the reporting date that utilized.
have maturity dates approximating the terms of the Group’s obligations and that are denominated in the same currency
Deferred tax assets include Minimum Alternative Tax (MAT) paid in accordance with the tax laws in India, which is likely
in which the benefits are expected to be paid.
to give future economic benefits in the form of availability of set off against future income tax liability. MAT credit is
The actuarial calculation is performed annually by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method. recognized as deferred tax asset in the balance sheet when the asset can be measured reliably and it is probable that
Remeasurement comprising of actuarial gain and losses, return on plan assets (excluding the amount included in net the future taxable profit will be available against which MAT credit can be utilized.
interest on the net defined liability) & effect of asset ceiling (excluding the amount included in net interest on the net
When there is uncertainty regarding income tax treatments, the Group assesses whether a tax authority is likely to
defined liability) and the same are recognized in statement of profit and loss account in the period in which they arise.
accept an uncertain tax treatment. If it concludes that the tax authority is unlikely to accept an uncertain tax treatment,
The obligations are presented as current liabilities in the balance sheet if the Group does not have an unconditional the effect of the uncertainty on taxable income, tax bases and unused tax losses and unused tax credits is recognized.
right to defer settlement for at least twelve months after the reporting period, regardless of when the actual settlement The effect of the uncertainty is recognized using the method that, in each case, best reflects the outcome of the
is expected to occur. uncertainty: the most likely outcome or the expected value. For each case, the Group evaluates whether to consider
each uncertain tax treatment separately, or in conjunction with another or several other uncertain tax treatments,
14.4. Short-term benefits
based on the approach that best prefixes the resolution of uncertainty.
Short-term employee benefit obligations are measured on an undiscounted basis and are expensed as the related
service is provided. 16. Leases
A liability is recognized for the amount expected to be paid under performance related pay if the Group has a present 16.1. As lessee
legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of past service provided by the employee and the obligation
The Group assesses whether a contract contains a lease, at inception of a contract. A contract is, or contains, a lease if
can be estimated reliably.
the contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration.
15. Income tax To assess whether a contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset, the Group assesses whether:
(1) the contact involves the use of an identified asset (2) the Group has substantially all of the economic benefits from
Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax. Current tax expense is recognized in statement of profit and
use of the asset through the period of the lease and (3) the Group has the right to direct the use of the asset.
loss except to the extent that it relates to items recognized directly in OCI or equity, in which case it is recognized in OCI
or equity, respectively. The Group recognizes a right-of-use asset and a corresponding lease liability for all lease arrangements in which it is a
lessee, except for leases with a term of twelve months or less (short-term leases) and leases for low value underlying
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year computed as per the provisions of Income
assets. For these short-term and leases for low value underlying assets, the Group recognizes the lease payments as an
Tax Act, 1961, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period, and any adjustment
operating expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Certain lease arrangements include the options to extend or terminate the lease before the end of the lease term.
Deferred tax is recognized using the balance sheet method, on temporary differences between the carrying amounts
Right-of use assets and lease liabilities include these options when it is reasonably certain that the option to extend
of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the tax bases of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax is
the lease will be exercised/option to terminate the lease will not be exercised.
measured at the tax rates that are expected to be applied to temporary differences when they materialize, based on
the laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are The right-of-use assets (other than land and buildings) are initially recognized at cost, which comprises the initial
offset if there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against the current tax liabilities, and they relate amount of the lease liability adjusted for any lease payments made at or prior to the commencement date of the lease
to income taxes levied by the same tax authority. plus any initial direct costs less any lease incentives. They are subsequently measured at cost less accumulated
depreciation/amortization and impairment losses and adjusted for any reassessment of lease liabilities.
Deferred tax is recognized in statement of profit and loss except to the extent that it relates to items recognized
directly in OCI or equity, in which case it is recognized in OCI or equity, respectively. Right-of-use assets are depreciated/amortized from the commencement date to the end of the useful life of the
underlying asset, if the lease transfers ownership of the underlying asset by the end of lease term or if the cost of right-
Deferred tax liability is recognized for all taxable temporary differences, except when the deferred tax liability arises
of-use assets reflects that the purchase option will be exercised. Otherwise, Right-of-use assets are depreciated/
from the initial recognition of goodwill or an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and,
amortized from the commencement date on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the lease term and useful life of
at the time of transaction, (i) affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss and (ii) does not give rise to equal
the underlying asset.
taxable and deductible temporary differences.
Right-of-use assets are evaluated for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their
A deferred tax asset is recognized for all deductible temporary differences to the extent that it is probable that future
carrying amounts may not be recoverable. For the purpose of impairment testing, the recoverable amount (i.e. the
taxable profits will be available against which the deductible temporary difference can be utilized. Deferred tax assets
higher of the fair value less costs of disposal and the value-in-use) is determined on an individual asset basis unless the
are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the sufficient
asset does not generate cash flows that are largely independent of those from other assets. In such cases, the recoverable
taxable profits will be available in future to allow all or part of deferred tax assets to be utilized.
amount is determined for the Cash Generating Unit (CGU) to which the asset belongs.
Deferred tax liabilities are not recognized for taxable temporary differences between the carrying amount and tax
The lease liability is initially measured at amortized cost at the present value of the future lease payments. In calculating
bases of investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint arrangements where the Group is able to control the timing
the present value, lease payments are discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease or, if not readily
of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the
determinable, using the incremental borrowing rate. Lease liabilities are re-measured with a corresponding adjustment
foreseeable future.
to the related right-of-use asset if the Group changes its assessment whether it will exercise an extension or a termination
option.
490 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 491
16.2. As lessor are identified on the basis of internal reports used by the Group’s management to allocate resources to the segments
and assess their performance. The Board of Directors is collectively the Group’s ‘Chief Operating Decision Maker’ or
At the inception of an arrangement, the Group determines whether such an arrangement is or contains a lease. A
‘CODM’ within the meaning of Ind AS 108. The indicators used for internal reporting purposes may evolve in connection
specific asset is subject of a lease if fulfillment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of that specified asset. An
with performance assessment measures put in place.
arrangement conveys the right to use the asset if the arrangement conveys to the customer the right to control the use
of the underlying asset. Arrangements that do not take the legal form of a lease but convey rights to customers/
19. Business Combinations
suppliers to use an asset in return for a payment or a series of payments are identified as either finance leases or
operating leases. (i) Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition accounting method as at the date of the acquisition,
which is the date at which control is transferred to the Group. The consideration transferred in the acquisition
When the Group is an intermediate lessor, it accounts for its interests in the head lease and the sub lease separately. It
and the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recognized at fair values on their acquisition
assesses the lease classification of a sub-lease with reference to the right-of-use assets arising from the head lease, not
date. Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the consideration transferred over the net
with reference to the underlying asset .
identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Where the fair value of net identifiable assets acquired and
Accounting for finance leases liabilities assumed exceed the consideration transferred, after reassessing the fair values of the net assets and
contingent liabilities, the excess is recognized as capital reserve. Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred.
Where the Group determines a long term Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) to be or to contain a lease and where the
off taker has the principal risk and rewards of ownership of the power plant through its contractual arrangements with (ii) Business combinations involving entities that are controlled by the Group are accounted for using the pooling of
the Group, the arrangement is considered a finance lease. Capacity payments are apportioned between capital interests method wherein the assets and liabilities of the combining entities are reflected at their carrying amounts
repayments relating to the provision of the plant, finance income and service income. The finance income element of and no adjustments are made to reflect fair values, or recognise any new assets or liabilities. The only adjustments
the capacity payment is recognized as revenue, using a rate of return specific to the plant to give a constant periodic that are made are to harmonise accounting policies.
rate of return on the net investment in each period. The service income element of the capacity payment is the
The financial information in the financial statements in respect of prior periods is restated as if the business combination
difference between the total capacity payment and the amount recognized as finance income and capital repayments
had occurred from the beginning of the preceding period in the financial statements, irrespective of the actual date of
and recognized as revenue as it is earned.
the combination. However, where the business combination had occurred after that date, the prior period information
The amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recorded in the balance sheet as financial assets, classified as is restated only from that date.
‘Finance lease receivables’, at the amount equal to the net investment in the lease.
The balance of the retained earnings appearing in the financial statements of the transferor is aggregated with the
Accounting for operating leases corresponding balance appearing in the financial statements of the transferee. The identity of the reserves is preserved
and the reserves of the transferor become the reserves of the transferee. The difference, if any, between the amounts
Where the Group determines a long term PPA to be or to contain a lease and where the Group retains the principal
recorded as share capital issued plus any additional consideration in the form of cash or other assets and the amount
risks and rewards of ownership of the power plant, the arrangement is considered an operating lease.
of share capital of the transferor is transferred to capital reserve and is presented separately from other capital reserves.
For operating leases, the power plant is capitalized as property, plant and equipment and depreciated over its economic
life. Rental income from operating leases is recognized on a straight line basis over the term of the arrangement. 20. Dividends
Dividends and interim dividends payable to the Group’s shareholders are recognized as changes in equity in the period
17. Impairment of non-financial assets
in which they are approved by the shareholders and the Board of Directors respectively.
The carrying amounts of the Group’s non-financial assets are reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether
there is any indication of impairment considering the provisions of Ind AS 36 - ‘Impairment of Assets’. If any such 21. Material prior period errors
indication exists, then the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated.
Material prior period errors are corrected retrospectively by restating the comparative amounts for the prior periods
The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is the higher of its fair value less costs of disposal and its presented in which the error occurred. If the error occurred before the earliest period presented, the opening balances
value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a of assets, liabilities and equity for the earliest period presented, are restated.
pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the
asset. For the purpose of impairment testing, assets that cannot be tested individually are grouped together into the 22. Financial instruments
smallest group of assets that generates cash inflows from continuing use that are largely independent of the cash
A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity
inflows of other assets or groups of assets (the ‘cash-generating unit’, or “CGU”).
instrument of another entity. The Group recognizes a financial asset or a financial liability only when it becomes party
An impairment loss is recognized if the carrying amount of an asset or its CGU exceeds its estimated recoverable to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
amount. Impairment losses are recognized in the statement of profit and loss. Impairment losses recognized in respect
22.1. Financial assets
of CGUs are reduced from the carrying amounts of the assets of the CGU.
Initial recognition and measurement
Impairment losses recognized in prior periods are assessed at each reporting date for any indications that the loss has
decreased or no longer exists. An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to All financial assets are recognized at fair value on initial recognition, except for trade receivables which are initially
determine the recoverable amount. An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount measured at transaction price. Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition of financial assets,
does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of accumulated depreciation or which are not valued at fair value through profit or loss, are added to the fair value on initial recognition.
amortization, if no impairment loss had been recognized.
Subsequent measurement
18. Operating segments Debt instruments at amortized cost
In accordance with Ind AS 108 – ‘Operating segments’, the operating segments used to present segment information A ‘debt instrument’ is measured at the amortized cost if both the following conditions are met:
492 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 493
(a) The asset is held within a business model whose objective is to hold assets for collecting contractual cash flows, • The rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired, or
and
• The Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset or has assumed an obligation to pay the
(b) Contractual terms of the asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and received cash flows in full without material delay to a third party under a ‘pass-through’ arrangement; and either
interest (SPPI) on the principal amount outstanding. (a) the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, or (b) the Group has neither
transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the
After initial measurement, such financial assets are subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest
asset.
rate (EIR) method. Amortized cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees
or costs that are an integral part of the EIR. The EIR amortization is included in finance income in the statement of The difference between the carrying amount and the amount of consideration received/receivable is recognized in the
profit and loss. The losses arising from impairment are recognized in the statement of profit and loss. This category statement of profit and loss except for equity instruments classified as at FVTOCI, where such differences are recorded
generally applies to trade and other receivables. in OCI.
Debt instrument at FVTOCI (Fair value through OCI) Impairment of financial assets
A ‘debt instrument’ is classified as at the FVTOCI if both of the following criteria are met: In accordance with Ind AS 109 – ‘Financial Instruments’, the Group applies expected credit loss (ECL) model for
measurement and recognition of impairment loss on the following financial assets and credit risk exposure:
(a) The objective of the business model is achieved both by collecting contractual cash flows and selling the financial
assets, and (a) Financial assets that are debt instruments, and are measured at amortized cost e.g., loans, debt securities, deposits
and bank balance.
(b) The asset’s contractual cash flows represent SPPI
(b) Financial assets that are debt instruments and are measured as at FVTOCI.
Debt instruments included within the FVTOCI category are measured initially as well as at each reporting date at fair
value. Fair value movements are recognized in the OCI. However, the Group recognizes interest income, impairment (c) Lease receivables under Ind AS 116.
losses & reversals and foreign exchange gain or loss in the statement of profit and loss. On de-recognition of the asset,
(d) Trade receivables, unbilled revenue and contract assets under Ind AS 115.
cumulative gain or loss previously recognized in OCI is reclassified from the equity to the statement of profit and loss.
Interest earned whilst holding FVTOCI debt instrument is reported as interest income using the EIR method. (e) Loan commitments which are not measured as at FVTPL.
Debt instrument at FVTPL (Fair value through profit or loss) (f) Financial guarantee contracts which are not measured as at FVTPL.
FVTPL is a residual category for debt instruments. Any debt instrument, which does not meet the criteria for For trade receivables and contract assets/unbilled revenue, the Group applies the simplified approach required by Ind
categorization as at amortized cost or as FVTOCI, is classified as at FVTPL. AS 109 - ‘Financial Instruments’, which requires lifetime expected losses to be recognized from initial recognition.
In addition, the Group may elect to classify a debt instrument, which otherwise meets amortized cost or FVTOCI For recognition of impairment loss on other financial assets and risk exposure (other than purchased or originated
criteria, as at FVTPL. However, such election is allowed only if doing so reduces or eliminates a measurement or credit impaired financial assets), the Group determines that whether there has been a significant increase in the credit
recognition inconsistency (referred to as ‘accounting mismatch’). Debt instruments included within the FVTPL category risk since initial recognition. If credit risk has not increased significantly, 12-month ECL is used to provide for impairment
are measured at fair value with all changes recognized in the statement of profit and loss. Interest income on such loss. However, if credit risk has increased significantly, lifetime ECL is used. If, in a subsequent period, credit quality of
investments is presented under ‘Other income’. the instrument improves such that there is no longer a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition, then
the Group reverts to recognizing impairment loss allowance based on 12-month ECL.
Business model assessment
For purchased or originated credit impaired financial assets, a loss allowance is recognized for the cumulative changes
The Group holds financial assets which arise from its ordinary course of business. The objective of the business model
in lifetime expected credited losses since initial recognition.
for these financial assets is to collect the amounts due from the Group’s receivables and to earn contractual interest
income on the amounts collected. 22.2. Financial liabilities
Investment in Equity instruments Initial recognition and measurement
All equity investments in entities other than subsidiaries and joint venture companies are measured at fair value. Financial liabilities are classified, at initial recognition, as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss and
Equity instruments which are held for trading are classified as at FVTPL. For all other equity instruments, the Group financial liabilities at amortized cost, as appropriate. All financial liabilities are recognized initially at fair value and, in
decides to classify the same either as at FVTOCI or FVTPL. The Group makes such election on an instrument by instrument the case of liabilities subsequently measured at amortized cost net of directly attributable transaction cost. The Group’s
basis. The classification is made on initial recognition and is irrevocable. financial liabilities include trade and other payables, borrowings including bank overdrafts, financial guarantee contracts
and derivative financial instruments.
If the Group decides to classify an equity instrument as at FVTOCI, then all fair value changes on the instrument,
excluding dividends, are recognized in the OCI. There is no recycling of the amounts from OCI to statement of profit Subsequent measurement
and loss, even on sale/disposal of investments. However, the Group may transfer the cumulative gain or loss within
The measurement of financial liabilities depends on their classification, as described below:
equity on sale / disposal of the investments.
Financial liabilities at amortized cost
Equity instruments included within the FVTPL category are measured at fair value with all changes recognized in the
After initial measurement, such financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortized cost using the EIR method.
statement of profit and loss. Dividend on such investments is presented under ‘Other income’.
Gains and losses are recognized in statement of profit and loss when the liabilities are derecognized as well as through
De-recognition
the EIR amortization process Amortized cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition
A financial asset (or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset or part of a Group of similar financial assets) is and fees or costs that are an integral part of the EIR. The EIR amortization is included in finance costs in the statement
primarily de-recognized (i.e. removed from the Group’s balance sheet) when: of profit and loss. This category generally applies to borrowings, trade payables and other contractual liabilities.
494 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 495
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss measured at fair value. Derivatives are carried as financial assets when the fair value is positive and as financial liabilities
when the fair value is negative. Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives are taken to
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss include financial liabilities held for trading and financial liabilities
statement of profit and loss.
designated upon initial recognition as at fair value through profit or loss. Financial liabilities are classified as held for
trading if they are incurred for the purpose of repurchasing in the near term. This category also includes derivative 22.6 Offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities
financial instruments entered into by the Group that are not designated as hedging instruments in hedge relationships
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is presented in the balance sheet if there is a
as defined by Ind AS 109. Separated embedded derivatives are also classified as held for trading unless they are designated
currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognized amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, to
as effective hedging instruments.
realize the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
Gains or losses on liabilities held for trading are recognized in the statement of profit and loss.
23. Non-current assets held for sale
Financial liabilities designated upon initial recognition at fair value through profit or loss are designated at the initial
date of recognition, and only if the criteria in Ind AS 109 are satisfied. For liabilities designated as FVTPL, fair value The Group classifies non-current assets and disposal groups as held for sale if their carrying amounts will be recovered
gains/losses attributable to changes in own credit risk is recognized in OCI. These gains/losses are not subsequently principally through a sale rather than through continuing use and a sale is considered highly probable.
transferred to profit and loss. However, the Group may transfer the cumulative gain or loss within equity on disposal.
Management must be committed to the sale, which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale
All other changes in fair value of such liability are recognized in the statement of profit and loss. The Group has not
within one year from the date of classification as held for sale, and actions required to complete the plan of sale should
designated any financial liability as at fair value through profit and loss.
indicate that it is unlikely that significant changes to the plan will be made or that the plan will be withdrawn.
De-recognition
Non-current assets held for sale and disposal groups are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and the fair
A financial liability is derecognized when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires. When value less costs of disposal.
an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets once classified as held for sale are not depreciated or amortized.
of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as the de-recognition of
In circumstances, where an item of property, plant and equipment and intangible asset is permanently abandoned and
the original liability and the recognition of a new liability. The difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognized
retired from active use, however criteria of ‘non-current assets held for sale’ as above are not met, such items are not
in the statement of profit and loss.
classified as held for sale and continued to be depreciated over their revised useful lives, as assessed. Such assets are
22.3 Interest rate benchmark reform
evaluated for impairment in accordance with material accounting policy no. C.17.
When the basis for determining the contractual cash flows of a financial asset or financial liability measured at amortised
cost is changed as a result of interest rate benchmark reform, the Group updated the effective interest rate of the D. Use of estimates and management judgements
financial asset or financial liability to reflect the change that is required by the reform. A change in the basis for
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that
determining the contractual cash flows is required by interest rate benchmark reform if the following conditions are
may impact the application of accounting policies and the reported value of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and
met:
related disclosures concerning the items involved as well as contingent assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date.
– the change is necessary as a direct consequence of the reform; and The estimates and management’s judgments are based on previous experience & other factors considered reasonable
and prudent in the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
– the new basis for determining the contractual cash flows is economically equivalent to the previous basis – i.e.
the basis immediately before the change. Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are
recognized in the period in which the estimates are revised and in any future periods affected.
When changes were made to a financial asset or financial liability in addition to changes to the basis for determining
the contractual cash flows required by interest rate benchmark reform, the Group first updates the effective interest In order to enhance understanding of the financial statements, information about significant areas of estimation,
rate of the financial asset or financial liability to reflect the change that is required by interest rate benchmark reform uncertainty and critical judgments in applying accounting policies that have the most significant effect on the amounts
and does not recognise a modification gain or loss in the statement of profit and loss. After that, the Group applies the recognized in the financial statements is as under:
policies on accounting for modifications to the additional changes.
1. Formulation of accounting policies
22.4 Financial guarantee contracts
The accounting policies are formulated in a manner that results in financial statements containing relevant and reliable
Financial guarantee contracts issued by the Group are those contracts that require a payment to be made to reimburse
information about the transactions, other events and conditions to which they apply. Those policies need not be
the holder for a loss it incurs because the specified debtor fails to make a payment when due in accordance with the
applied when the effect of applying them is immaterial.
terms of a debt instrument. Financial guarantee contracts are recognized initially as a liability at fair value, adjusted for
transaction costs that are directly attributable to the issuance of the guarantee. Subsequently, the liability is measured
2. Useful life of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
at the higher of the amount of loss allowance determined as per impairment requirements of Ind AS 109 - ‘Financial
The estimated useful life of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets is based on a number of factors
Instruments’ and the amount recognized less the cumulative amount of income recognized in accordance with the
including the effects of obsolescence, demand, competition and other economic factors (such as the stability of the
principles of Ind AS 115 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’.
industry and known technological advances) and the level of maintenance expenditures required to obtain the expected
22.5 Derivative financial instruments
future cash flows from the asset.
Initial recognition and subsequent measurement
Useful life of the assets of the generation of electricity business and integrated coal mines (where tariff is regulated) is
The Group uses derivative financial instruments, such as forward currency contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge determined by the CERC Tariff Regulations in accordance with Schedule II of the Companies Act, 2013.
its foreign currency risks and interest rate risks of foreign currency loans. Such derivative financial instruments are
initially recognized at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-
496 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 497
3. Recoverable amount of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 2. Non-current assets - Property, plant and equipment
As at 31 March 2024 ````` Crore
The recoverable amount of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets is based on estimates and assumptions
regarding in particular the expected market outlook and future cash flows associated with the power plants. Any Particulars Gross block Depreciation, amortization and impairment Net block
changes in these assumptions may have a material impact on the measurement of the recoverable amount and could As at Additions Deductions/ As at As at For Deductions/ Upto As at
result in impairment. 1 April adjustments 31 March 1 April the year adjustments 31 March 31 March
2023 2024 2023 2024 2024
4. Defined benefit plans and long-term employee benefits
Land (including
Employee benefit obligations are measured on the basis of actuarial assumptions which include mortality and withdrawal development expenses)
rates as well as assumptions concerning future developments in discount rates, the rate of salary increases and the Freehold 9,264.34 199.29 (26.11) 9,437.52 - - - - 9,437.52
inflation rate. The Group considers that the assumptions used to measure its obligations are appropriate and Right of use 4,030.74 1,528.67 1.48 5,560.89 566.36 176.38 1.47 744.21 4,816.68
documented. However, any changes in these assumptions may have a material impact on the resulting calculations. Under submergence 2,598.52 96.43 - 2,694.95 1,008.67 74.42 - 1,083.09 1,611.86
(refer footnote (d) below)
5. Revenues Right of use - Coal Bearing 4,320.81 535.45 - 4,856.26 454.71 153.78 - 608.49 4,247.77
Area Land
The Group records revenue from sale of energy based on tariff rates approved by the CERC as modified by the orders
Roads, bridges, culverts 2,493.14 406.11 (6.12) 2,893.13 532.26 111.79 (6.14) 637.91 2,255.22
of Appellate Tribunal for Electricity, as per principles enunciated under Ind AS 115. However, in cases where tariff rates
and helipads
are yet to be approved, provisional rates are adopted considering the applicable CERC Tariff Regulations.
Building
Freehold
6. Leases not in legal form of lease
Main plant 12,991.43 502.98 (352.36) 13,142.05 3,167.33 459.99 (159.11) 3,468.21 9,673.84
Significant judgment is required to apply lease accounting rules as per Ind AS 116 in determining whether an arrangement
Others 7,548.73 796.35 260.47 8,605.55 1,557.75 337.25 94.10 1,989.10 6,616.45
contains a lease. In assessing arrangements entered into by the Group, management has exercised judgment to evaluate
Right of use 59.25 12.90 (4.66) 67.49 32.64 11.13 (4.14) 39.63 27.86
the right to use the underlying asset, substance of the transactions including legally enforceable agreements and other
Temporary erection 82.80 1.26 43.12 127.18 80.43 1.93 43.12 125.48 1.70
significant terms and conditions of the arrangements to conclude whether the arrangement meets the criteria as per
Water supply, drainage 1,245.30 199.52 26.42 1,471.24 375.55 60.44 10.46 446.45 1,024.79
Ind AS 116.
and sewerage system
Hydraulic works, barrages, 11,284.49 690.71 9,718.16 21,693.36 6,103.03 853.18 2,394.65 9,350.86 12,342.50
7. Assets held for sale
dams, tunnels and power
Significant judgment is required to apply the accounting of non-current assets held for sale under Ind AS 105 - ‘Non- channel
current assets held for sale and discontinued operations’. In assessing the applicability, management has exercised MGR track and signalling system 5,701.27 292.62 (0.23) 5,993.66 1,071.12 321.69 - 1,392.81 4,600.85
judgment to evaluate the availability of the asset for immediate sale, management’s commitment for the sale and Railway siding 4,011.98 442.72 0.11 4,454.81 926.42 234.01 0.09 1,160.52 3,294.29
probability of sale within one year to conclude if their carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale Earth dam reservoir 1,114.48 276.61 - 1,391.09 178.01 64.54 - 242.55 1,148.54
transaction rather than through continuing use. Plant and equipment
Owned 2,63,867.50 28,955.93 (10,761.78) 2,82,061.65 79,745.58 14,465.76 (3,420.29) 90,791.05 1,91,270.60
8. Regulatory deferral account balances Right of use 85.78 - 85.78 37.88 4.75 - 42.63 43.15
Recognition of regulatory deferral account balances involves significant judgments including about future tariff Mining Properties 1,365.07 823.71 (280.90) 1,907.88 203.69 35.70 (24.97) 214.42 1,693.46
regulations since these are based on estimation of the amounts expected to be recoverable/payable through tariff in Site restoration cost 253.46 190.07 (32.22) 411.31 22.61 9.49 - 32.10 379.21
future. Furniture and fixtures 1,024.49 127.03 (14.79) 1,136.73 393.52 77.73 (11.71) 459.54 677.19
Vehicles including
9. Provisions and contingencies speedboats / helicopter
Owned 192.28 12.19 (3.47) 201.00 54.53 20.35 (2.47) 72.41 128.59
The assessments undertaken in recognizing provisions and contingencies have been made in accordance with Ind AS
Right of use 77.34 9.69 (57.73) 29.30 31.17 10.36 (25.52) 16.01 13.29
37 - ‘Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets’. The evaluation of the likelihood of the contingent events
Office equipment 677.64 128.65 (78.63) 727.66 369.25 83.84 (62.48) 390.61 337.05
require best judgment by management regarding the probability of exposure to potential loss. Should circumstances
EDP, WP machines and satcom 600.64 150.17 (77.07) 673.74 440.21 93.96 (56.73) 477.44 196.30
change following unforeseeable developments, this likelihood could alter.
equipment
Construction equipment 342.53 27.09 (7.46) 362.16 151.22 27.42 (4.39) 174.25 187.91
10. Impairment test of investments in Joint Venture Companies
Electrical installations 2,710.73 322.91 106.09 3,139.73 837.26 150.91 63.63 1,051.80 2,087.93
The recoverable amount of investment in joint venture companies is based on estimates and assumptions regarding in
Communication equipment 143.40 25.99 32.14 201.53 78.82 18.29 9.07 106.18 95.35
particular the future cash flows associated with the operations of the investee Company. Any changes in these
Hospital equipment 69.26 5.20 0.61 75.07 33.47 7.09 0.16 40.72 34.35
assumptions may have a material impact on the measurement of the recoverable amount and could result in impairment.
Laboratory and workshop 278.84 13.04 1.77 293.65 100.25 13.27 0.52 114.04 179.61
equipment
11. Income taxes
Assets for ash utilisation 60.79 10.16 - 70.95 - - - - 70.95
Significant estimates are involved in determining the provision for current and deferred tax, including amount expected Less: Adjusted from fly ash 60.79 10.16 - 70.95 - - - - 70.95
to be paid/recovered for uncertain tax positions. utilisation reserve fund
Total 3,38,436.24 36,773.29 (1,513.16) 3,73,696.37 98,553.74 17,879.45 (1,160.68) 1,15,272.51 2,58,423.86
498 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 499
As at 31 March 2023 ` Crore a) The conveyancing of the title to 15,678.05 acres of freehold land of value ````` 2,421.29 crore (31 March 2023: 15,775.13
acres of value ` 2,461.49 crore), buildings and structures of value ````` 4.97 crore (31 March 2023: ` 4.97 crore) and also
Particulars Gross block Depreciation, amortization and impairment Net block
execution of lease agreements for 17,251.36 acres of right of use land of value ````` 1,064.87 crore (31 March 2023: 37,390.66
As at Additions Deductions/ As at As at For Deductions/ Upto As at
acres of value ` 1,584.43 crore) in favour of the Group are awaiting completion of legal formalities.
1 April adjustments 31 March 1 April the year adjustments 31 March 31 March
2022 2023 2022 2023 2023 b) Land includes 1,146.67 acres of freehold land of value ````` 22.13 crore (31 March 2023: 1,295.40 acres of value ` 29.56
Land (including crore) and 377.71 acres of right of use land of value ````` 10.55 crore (31 March 2023: 376.57 acres of value ` 3.07 crore) not
development expenses) in possession of the Company. The Company is taking appropriate steps for repossession of the same.
Freehold 9,141.50 128.23 (5.39) 9,264.34 - - - - 9,264.34 c) Land-freehold includes an amount of ````` 263.92 crore (31 March 2023: ` 263.92 crore) deposited with various authorities
Right of use 3,433.43 856.10 (258.79) 4,030.74 582.24 165.34 (181.22) 566.36 3,464.38 in respect of land in possession which is subject to adjustment on final determination of price.
Under submergence 2,530.23 68.31 (0.02) 2,598.52 937.18 71.49 - 1,008.67 1,589.85
d) Gross block of land under submergence represents ````` 2,516.11 crore (31 March 2023: ` 2,419.68 crore) of freehold land
(refer footnote (d) below)
and ````` 178.83 crore (31 March 2023: ` 178.83 crore) of right of use land. The land has been amortized considering the
Right of use - Coal Bearing 4,082.64 238.17 - 4,320.81 331.13 123.58 - 454.71 3,866.10
rate of depreciation provided by the CERC in the tariff regulations and the fact that it will not have any economic value
Area Land
due to deposit of silt and other foreign materials.
Roads, bridges, culverts 2,230.48 264.53 (1.87) 2,493.14 440.91 91.23 0.12 532.26 1,960.88
and helipads e) Possession of land measuring 98 acres (31 March 2023: 98 acres) consisting of 79 acres of freehold land (31 March 2023:
Building 79 acres) and 19 acres of right of use land (31 March 2023: 19 acres) of value ````` 0.21 crore (31 March 2023: ` 0.21 crore)
Freehold was transferred to Uttar Pradesh Rajya Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Ltd. (erstwhile UPSEB) for a consideration of ` 0.21 crore.
Main plant 12,538.01 457.62 (4.20) 12,991.43 2,728.91 443.00 (4.58) 3,167.33 9,824.10 Pending approval for transfer of the said land, the area and value of this land has been included in the total land of the
Others 6,722.92 852.45 (26.64) 7,548.73 1,294.52 285.92 (22.69) 1,557.75 5,990.98 Company. The consideration received from erstwhile UPSEB is disclosed under Note 36 - Current liabilities - Other financial
Right of use 55.85 5.89 (2.49) 59.25 25.66 9.16 (2.18) 32.64 26.61 liabilities.
Temporary erection 81.15 5.81 (4.16) 82.80 79.12 5.36 (4.05) 80.43 2.37
f) Operations of one of the thermal power station of the Company (460 MW-TTPS) was discontinued w.e.f. the end of 31
Water supply, drainage and 1,095.69 150.10 (0.49) 1,245.30 325.03 50.82 (0.30) 375.55 869.75
March 2021. Some of the assets have been classified as held for sale considering the requirements of Ind AS 105. Carrying
sewerage system
value of remaining assets of the discontinued plant as at 31 March 2024 is ````` 4.59 crore (31 March 2023: ` 120.52 crore).
Hydraulic works, barrages, 11,260.77 2.08 21.64 11,284.49 5,743.37 359.66 - 6,103.03 5,181.46
It is expected that many of the assets are expected to be used in other power plants of the Company. Notwithstanding
dams, tunnels and power
the above, the net realisable value of the assets of the station has been assessed which is more than its carrying value.
channel
MGR track and signalling 4,148.27 1,553.54 (0.54) 5,701.27 806.95 264.26 (0.09) 1,071.12 4,630.15 g) Operations of one of the thermal power station (220 MW-Kanti) of the Company was discontinued w.e.f. 8 September
system 2021. Carrying value of remaining assets of the station as at 31 March 2024 is ````` 52.38 crore (31 March 2023: ` 97.61
Railway siding 3,688.93 323.81 (0.76) 4,011.98 716.75 209.79 (0.12) 926.42 3,085.56 crore). The net realisable value of the assets of the station has been assessed which is more than its carrying value. Since
Earth dam reservoir 545.78 568.70 - 1,114.48 143.57 34.44 - 178.01 936.47 the conditions precedent for classification of these assets as held for sale are not completed, these assets have been
Plant and equipment continued to be classified under Property,plant and equipment.
Owned 2,39,449.34 24,928.78 (510.62) 2,63,867.50 67,298.67 13,630.98 (1,184.07) 79,745.58 1,84,121.92 h) Operations of Stage-I (2X110 MW-Barauni) of one of the thermal power stations of the Company, along with auxiliary
Right of use 85.78 - - 85.78 33.13 4.75 - 37.88 47.90 systems except Coal Handling Plant, Switch yard, Ash dyke and township, was discontinued w.e.f. 31 March 2024. Carrying
Mining Properties 1,285.97 79.10 - 1,365.07 133.48 70.21 - 203.69 1,161.38 value of remaining assets of the station as at 31 March 2024 is ````` 20.31 crore. These assets will be disposed or utilised at
Site restoration cost 253.46 - - 253.46 15.80 6.81 - 22.61 230.85 other locations of the Company, subsequent to decommissioning of the Units. The net realisable value of the assets of
Furniture and fixtures 940.77 91.77 (8.05) 1,024.49 330.23 69.78 (6.49) 393.52 630.97 the station has been assessed which is more than its carrying value. Since the conditions precedent for classification of
Vehicles including speedboats these assets as held for sale are not completed, these assets have been continued to be classified under Property,plant
Owned 183.36 8.92 - 192.28 35.03 19.77 (0.27) 54.53 137.75 and equipment.
Right of use 52.29 55.19 (30.14) 77.34 39.69 21.23 (29.75) 31.17 46.17
i) Refer Note 74 regarding property, plant and equipment under lease.
Office equipment 585.01 110.91 (18.28) 677.64 317.75 65.65 (14.15) 369.25 308.39
j) Spare parts of ` 5 lakh and above, stand-by equipment and servicing equipment which meet the definition of property,
EDP, WP machines and 544.39 97.88 (41.63) 600.64 403.25 78.05 (41.09) 440.21 160.43
plant and equipment are capitalized.
satcom equipment
Construction equipment 294.34 49.74 (1.55) 342.53 128.42 24.27 (1.47) 151.22 191.31 k) Property, plant and equipment costing ` 5,000/- or less, are depreciated fully in the year of acquisition.
Electrical installations 2,434.63 285.18 (9.08) 2,710.73 708.41 133.14 (4.29) 837.26 1,873.47
l) Refer Note 27 and Note 33 for information on property, plant and equipment pledged as security by the Group.
Communication equipment 125.67 18.50 (0.77) 143.40 68.85 10.58 (0.61) 78.82 64.58
Hospital Equipment 64.56 4.89 (0.19) 69.26 26.11 7.52 (0.16) 33.47 35.79 m) Refer Note 76(C)(a) for disclosure of contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment.
Laboratory and workshop 269.96 8.98 (0.10) 278.84 87.27 13.02 (0.04) 100.25 178.59
equipment
Assets for ash utilisation 57.84 2.95 - 60.79 - - - - 60.79
Less: Adjusted from fly ash 57.84 2.95 - 60.79 - - - - 60.79
utilisation reserve fund
Total 3,08,125.18 31,215.18 (904.12) 3,38,436.24 83,781.43 16,269.81 (1,497.50) 98,553.74 2,39,882.50
500 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 501
n) Deduction/adjustments from gross block and depreciation, amortisation and impairment for the year includes: q) Property, plant and equipment subject to operating lease
````` Crore The Power Purchase Agreements (PPA) signed in respect of one of the thermal power stations was operative initially for
Particulars Gross block Depreciation, amortization a period of five years with the beneficiaries which are extended, renewed or replaced as the parties mutually agree. The
and impairment Company has continued to classify this arrangement with its customers as lease based on the practical expedient provided
in Ind AS 116. The net carrying value of such leased assets included above are as under:
For the year ended For the year ended
````` Crore
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March
2024 2023 2024 2023 Particulars As at As at
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Disposal of assets (104.87) (60.76) (99.17) (56.02)
Land- Free hold 51.61 51.61
Retirement of assets (1,182.64) (1,158.92) (923.44) (928.62)
Roads, bridges, culverts and helipads 6.25 7.81
Cost adjustments due to exchange differences (2.53) 985.46
Main plant building-Freehold 5.91 7.68
Assets capitalised with retrospective effect/ (40.59) (6.43) (5.11) (3.73)
Write back of excess capitalisation Other building-Freehold 14.69 19.85
Transferred to Assets held for sale-Note 22 (110.45) (401.73) (96.56) (299.30) Water supply, drainage and sewerage system 3.70 4.58
Others (72.08) (261.74) (36.40) (209.83) Plant and equipment - Owned 160.92 187.30
Total (1,513.16) (904.12) (1,160.68) (1,497.50) Railway siding 0.57 0.66
Electrical installation 2.61 2.86
o) Exchange differences capitalized in Capital work-in-progress (CWIP) are allocated to various heads of CWIP in the year of
Others 1.96 2.68
capitalisation. Exchange differences in respect of assets already capitalised are disclosed in the ‘Deductions/Adjustments’
column of Property, plant and equipment. Asset-wise details of exchange differences and borrowing costs included in 248.22 285.03
the cost of major heads of CWIP and property, plant and equipment through ‘Addition’ or ‘Deductions/Adjustments’
(ii) Freehold land includes land measuring 92.23 acres (31 March 2023: 92.23 acres) of value ````` 62.23 crore (31 March 2023:
column are given below:
` 62.23 crore) given under operating lease by M/s Patratu Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Ltd., a subsidiary of the Company. Also
````` Crore
refer Note 74.
Particulars For the year ended For the year ended
(iii) Vehicles-owned includes electric buses of value ````` 102.46 crore (31 March 2023: ` 117.25 crore) given under operating
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
lease by M/s NTPC Vidyut Vayapar Nigam Ltd., a subsidiary of the Company. Also refer Note 74.
Exchange Borrowing Exchange Borrowing
differences costs differences costs 3. Non-current assets - Capital work-in-progress
included in included in included in included in As at 31 March 2024 ````` Crore
PPE/CWIP PPE/CWIP PPE/CWIP PPE/CWIP
Particulars As at Additions Deductions/ Capitalized As at
Building-Freehold 1 April adjustments 31 March
2023 2024
Main plant 0.32 30.22 5.02 39.83
Development of land 364.90 86.69 (219.17) 1.95 230.47
Others - 55.25 (0.08) 61.60
Roads, bridges, culverts and helipads 748.92 277.44 (62.28) 356.14 607.94
Hydraulic works, barrages, dams, 3.06 288.10 32.00 267.53
tunnels and power channel Piling and foundation 424.06 - (286.81) - 137.25
MGR track and signalling system - 1.36 0.17 4.82 Buildings
Railway siding - 23.05 - 71.62 Freehold
Plant and equipment 9.29 2,624.18 1,034.07 2,762.01 Main plant 2,213.33 610.68 (375.48) 424.49 2,024.04
Others including pending allocation 1.37 905.96 103.81 764.44 Others 1,705.87 875.84 (139.98) 591.47 1,850.26
Total 14.04 3,928.12 1,174.99 3,971.85 Temporary erections 20.76 4.01 (6.69) 0.37 17.71
Water supply, drainage and sewerage system 190.82 249.03 89.22 161.08 367.99
p) Impairment loss/Reversal
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment expense for the year includes impairment reversal amounting ````` 16.07 crore
of one of the subsidiaries of the Company, for the year ended 31 March 2024 (31 March 2023: ` 27.97 crore impairement
loss)
502 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 503
As at 31 March 2024 ````` Crore As at 31 March 2023 ` Crore
Particulars As at Additions Deductions/ Capitalized As at Particulars As at Additions Deductions/ Capitalized As at
1 April adjustments 31 March 1 April adjustments 31 March
2023 2024 2022 2023
Hydraulic works, barrages, dams, tunnels and 7,522.31 1,969.37 (36.76) 38.54 9,416.38 Development of land 376.47 106.09 (108.93) 8.73 364.90
power channel
Roads, bridges, culverts and helipads 581.50 332.57 81.65 246.80 748.92
MGR track and signalling system 66.71 254.81 (192.32) 26.13 103.07
Piling and foundation 404.97 19.09 - - 424.06
Railway siding 718.46 224.55 (139.95) 313.25 489.81
Buildings
Earth dam reservoir 145.95 207.36 (11.78) 261.02 80.51
Freehold
Plant and equipment - owned 66,757.12 24,706.40 (191.28) 26,548.81 64,723.43
Main plant 1,606.81 937.93 121.42 452.83 2,213.33
Furniture and fixtures 3.58 9.71 6.97 15.40 4.86
Others 1,786.82 894.68 (127.57) 848.06 1,705.87
Vehicles 1.79 0.31 (0.02) 2.08 (0.00)
Temporary erections 26.40 5.58 (6.53) 4.69 20.76
Office equipment 26.32 10.62 0.13 7.56 29.51
Water supply, drainage and sewerage system 126.05 179.11 (10.37) 103.97 190.82
EDP/WP machines and satcom equipment 6.58 3.11 (3.99) 3.73 1.97
Hydraulic works, barrages, dams, tunnels 6,102.56 1,425.42 (4.69) 0.98 7,522.31
Construction equipment 1.67 9.22 (4.49) 4.79 1.61 and power channel
Electrical installations 377.99 146.00 (51.11) 176.30 296.58 MGR track and signalling system 89.57 451.06 (472.02) 1.90 66.71
Communication equipment 9.37 11.64 (4.54) 12.92 3.55 Railway siding 1,989.11 512.05 (1,458.89) 323.81 718.46
Hospital equipment 0.30 0.39 0.46 0.75 0.40 Earth dam reservoir 481.04 193.64 39.97 568.70 145.95
Laboratory and workshop equipment 0.56 0.68 (0.01) 0.27 0.96 Plant and equipment-owned 67,429.88 21,141.44 (1,364.51) 20,449.69 66,757.12
Development of coal mines 2,316.69 632.51 (451.61) 823.71 1,673.88 Furniture and fixtures 8.99 15.15 3.54 24.10 3.58
83,624.06 30,290.37 (2,081.49) 29,770.76 82,062.18 Vehicles 3.33 2.98 - 4.52 1.79
Expenditure pending allocation Office equipment 31.16 8.88 (0.65) 13.07 26.32
Survey, investigation, consultancy and 450.71 85.27 (104.53) - 431.45 EDP/WP machines and satcom equipment 3.49 4.91 (0.21) 1.61 6.58
supervision charges
Construction equipment 0.08 3.09 (1.44) 0.06 1.67
Difference in exchange on foreign currency 745.72 3.30 (404.62) - 344.40
Electrical installations 571.15 136.82 (146.26) 183.72 377.99
loans
Communication equipment 36.13 12.40 (33.66) 5.50 9.37
Pre-commissioning expenses (net) 287.16 648.21 (930.47) - 4.90
Hospital equipment 0.20 0.79 - 0.69 0.30
Expenditure during construction period(net)* 1,090.67 5,419.53 (49.01) 209.43 6,251.76
Laboratory and workshop equipment 1.99 0.33 (0.08) 1.68 0.56
Other expenditure directly attributable to 1,086.92 157.74 (766.78) 58.23 419.65
Development of coal mines 1,896.70 456.41 42.68 79.10 2,316.69
project construction
83,554.40 26,840.42 (3,446.55) 23,324.21 83,624.06
Less: Allocated to related works - 4,399.98 - - 4,399.98
Expenditure pending allocation
3,661.18 1,914.07 (2,255.41) 267.66 3,052.18
Survey, investigation, consultancy and 383.07 75.78 (7.57) 0.57 450.71
Sub-total 87,285.24 32,204.44 (4,336.90) 30,038.42 85,114.36
supervision charges
Less: Provision for unserviceable works 545.81 117.32 (6.90) - 656.23
Difference in exchange on foreign currency 715.09 141.25 (110.62) - 745.72
Construction stores (net of provision) 2,393.69 1,928.68 (1,180.40) 7.30 3,134.67
loans
Total 89,133.12 34,015.80 (5,510.40) 30,045.72 87,592.80
Pre-commissioning expenses (net) 126.71 492.17 (331.72) - 287.16
Expenditure during construction period (net)* 2,231.72 5,295.66 (311.75) - 7,215.63
Other expenditure directly attributable to 1,237.12 260.58 (410.78) - 1,086.92
project construction
504 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 505
As at 31 March 2023 ` Crore (b) Addition to intangible assets through internal development is Nil.
Particulars As at Additions Deductions/ Capitalized As at (c) Right to use - Others represents cost of acquisition of the right for drawl of water at three stations of the Company.
1 April adjustments 31 March
(d) Deductions/adjustments from gross block and amortisation for the year includes:
2022 2023
````` Crore
Less: Allocated to related works - 4,174.17 1,950.79 - 6,124.96
Particulars Gross block Amortization
4,693.71 2,091.27 (3,123.23) 0.57 3,661.18
For the year ended For the year ended
Sub-total 88,248.11 28,931.69 (6,569.78) 23,324.78 87,285.24
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March
Less: Provision for unserviceable works 539.68 15.41 (9.28) - 545.81
2024 2023 2024 2023
Construction stores (net of provision) 3,316.78 1,029.65 (1,952.74) - 2,393.69
Retirements and other adjustments (8.84) (1.40) (8.84) (1.42)
Total 91,025.21 29,945.93 (8,513.24) 23,324.78 89,133.12
Total (8.84) (1.40) (8.84) (1.42)
* Brought from expenditure during construction period (net) - Note 49
(e) Refer Note 76 (C)(a) for disclosure of contractual commitments for the acquisition of intangible assets.
a) Construction stores includes material lying with contractors for construction works and are net of provision for
shortages pending investigation amounting to ````` 30.40 crore (31 March 2023: ` 28.54 crore).
5. Non-current assets - Intangible assets under development
b) Pre-commissioning expenses for the year amount to ````` 876.05 crore (31 March 2023: ` 667.45 crore) and after As at 31 March 2024 ````` Crore
adjustment of pre-commissioning sales of ````` 227.84 crore (31 March 2023: ` 175.28 crore) resulted in net pre-
Particulars As at Additions Deductions/ Capitalized As at
commissioning expenditure of ````` 648.21 crore (31 March 2023: ` 492.17 crore).
1 April adjustments 31 March
c) Additions to the development of coal mines include expenditure during construction period (net) of ````` 1,623.14 2023 2024
crore (31 March 2023: ` 727.32 crore) - [Ref. Note 50] and after netting off the receipts from coal extracted during
Exploration and evaluation assets - coal mines 86.37 67.22 (41.58) - 112.01
the development phase amounting to ````` 990.63 crore (31 March 2023: ` 282.67 crore).
Exploratory wells-in-progress 7.64 - - - 7.64
d) Details of exchange differences and borrowing costs capitalised are disclosed in Note 2 (o).
Software 3.34 1.19 - 1.06 3.47
e) Amount capitalised under development of coal mines is included in assets capitalised under ‘Mining properties’ and
Upfront Fee 100.96 - - - 100.96
‘Site restoration cost’ under Property, plant and equipment.
198.31 68.41 (41.58) 1.06 224.08
4. Non-current assets - Intangible assets
Less: Provision for unserviceable works 152.43 - - - 152.43
As at 31 March 2024 ````` Crore
Total 45.88 68.41 (41.58) 1.06 71.65
Particulars Gross block Amortisation Net block
As at Additions Deductions/ As at As at For Deductions/ Upto As at As at 31 March 2023 ` Crore
1 April adjustments 31 March 1 April the year adjustments 31 March 31 March
Particulars As at Additions Deductions/ Capitalized As at
2023 2024 2023 2024 2024
1 April adjustments 31 March
Software 160.53 10.97 (8.84) 162.66 137.59 14.95 (8.84) 143.70 18.96 2022 2023
Right to use - Land 258.17 0.54 - 258.71 49.95 9.60 - 59.55 199.16
Exploration and evaluation assets - coal mines 142.05 8.52 (64.20) - 86.37
- Others 427.87 - - 427.87 117.11 19.11 - 136.22 291.65
Exploratory wells-in-progress 7.64 - - - 7.64
Total 846.57 11.51 (8.84) 849.24 304.65 43.66 (8.84) 339.47 509.77
Software 2.83 3.64 (0.52) 2.61 3.34
As at 31 March 2023 ` Crore
Upfront Fee 100.96 - - - 100.96
Particulars Gross block Amortisation Net block
253.48 12.16 (64.72) 2.61 198.31
As at Additions Deductions/ As at As at For Deductions/ Upto As at
Less: Provision for unserviceable works 152.43 - - - 152.43
1 April adjustments 31 March 1 April the year adjustments 31 March 31 March
2022 2023 2022 2023 2023
Total 101.05 12.16 (64.72) 2.61 45.88
Software 150.20 11.73 (1.40) 160.53 116.85 22.16 (1.42) 137.59 22.94
a) Refer Note 66 w.r.t. exploration and evaluation of assets-coal mines.
Right to use - Land 256.45 1.72 - 258.17 40.40 9.55 - 49.95 208.22
- Others 427.87 - - 427.87 98.00 19.11 - 117.11 310.76
Total 834.52 13.45 (1.40) 846.57 255.25 50.82 (1.42) 304.65 541.92
(a) The right to use of land and others are amortized over the period of legal right to use or life of the related plant,
whichever is less.
506 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 507
6. Non-current assets - Investments accounted for using the equity method a) Details of interest in joint venture companies, their summarised financial information, restrictions for the disposal
````` Crore of investments held by the Group and commitments towards certain Joint venture companies are disclosed in Note
71.
Particulars Number of Face value per As at As at
shares share in ````` 31 March 31 March b) The Resolution Plan submitted by the company and approved by National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), Kolkata
Current year/ Current year/ 2024 2023 bench in respect of Jhabua Power Limited (JPL) having installed and commercial capacity of 600 MW thermal power
(previous year) (previous year)
station, was implemented on 5 September 2022 for a total consideration of ` 925 crore, out of which ` 325 crore
Equity instruments - Unquoted was contributed as equity (face value of ` 10 each) and ` 600 crore was paid for the allotment of 5,99,99,994
(fully paid up - unless otherwise stated, at cost) number of 8.5% Non-Convertible Debentures (NCDs) of face value of ` 100 each. Pursuant to above, NTPC has
acquired 50% equity in the Company (JPL) in the previous year. Based on the shareholders agreement which provides
Joint venture companies
for joint control over the company, the investment in the company is considered as joint venture and accounted for
Utility Powertech Ltd. 20,00,000 10 110.03 103.03
accordingly.
(includes 10,00,000 bonus shares) (20,00,000) (10)
c) The Board of NTPC Ltd. in its meeting dated 29 October 2022 has accorded approval to the Supplementary JV
NTPC-GE Power Services Private Ltd. 30,00,000 10 15.27 9.31
Agreement of Anushakti Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Limited, a Joint Venture of the Company, to align the document in
(30,00,000) (10)
line with Atomic Energy Act 2016 amendment so that the Joint Venture Company may initiate process for setting up
NTPC-SAIL Power Company Ltd. 49,02,50,050 10 1,580.44 1,439.11
of nuclear power projects. Accordingly, Supplementary JV Agreement was signed between NTPC and NPCIL on 1
(49,02,50,050) (10)
May 2023 subject to approval of Department of Atomic Energy (DAE).
NTPC Tamil Nadu Energy Company Ltd. 1,43,63,96,112 10 1,947.14 1,898.93
d) Promoters of National High Power Testing Laboratory Ltd. (NHPTL), a joint venture of the Company, in the meeting
(1,43,63,96,112) (10)
held on 15 September 2022, under the chairmanship of Secretary Power, MoP, has accorded approval of revival plan
Aravali Power Company Private Ltd. 1,43,30,08,200 10 2,449.75 2,447.94 of NHPTL. Subsequently, Board of NTPC Limited has accorded approval to the restructuring plan on 11 March 2023.
(1,43,30,08,200) (10) The restructuring plan was under implementation as at 31 March 2024.
Meja Urja Nigam Private Ltd. 1,82,63,34,800 10 1,923.18 1,707.23
Further, pursuant to agreement entered on 23 April 2024 with the promoters of NHPTL, the share holding of the
(1,78,44,09,800) (10)
company in the Joint venture will be reduced to 12.50%.
Transformers and Electricals Kerala Ltd. 1,91,63,438 10 5.47 7.41
e) The Board of Directors of the Company in its meeting held on 28 April 2016 accorded in principle approval for
(1,91,63,438) (10)
withdrawal from NTPC BHEL Power Projects Private Ltd. (NBPPL), a joint venture of the Company. A meeting was
National High Power Test Laboratory Private Ltd. 4,88,00,000 10 12.32 - held on 3 October 2022 at MOP to discuss the way forward for NBPPL. In the meeting, it was decided that the
(3,04,00,000) (10) process of winding up of NBPPL will be taken up by both the promoters after the completion of balance on going
Energy Efficiency Services Ltd. 84,66,10,000 10 624.35 292.49 work at one of the projects of the Company. Pending withdrawal, provision for impairment loss on the entire
(46,36,10,000) (10) investment in NBPPL of ````` 50.00 crore (upto 31 March 2023: ` 50.00 crore) has been made based on the un-audited
accounts of NBPPL as at 31 March 2024.
CIL NTPC Urja Private Ltd. 76,900 10 0.08 0.07
(76,900) (10) f) The Board of Directors of the Company in its meeting held on 28 April 2016 accorded in principle approval for
Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Ltd. 2,64,29,85,000 10 3,009.95 2,269.89 withdrawal from Transformers and Electricals Kerala Ltd. (TELK), a joint venture of the Company. GOI has accorded
(2,29,59,55,000) (10) its approval for exit of NTPC from the joint venture. The decision of the Board of Directors of NTPC Limited and
approval of GOI has been conveyed to the Government of Kerala (GoK) (JV Partner) & TELK vide letter dated
Jhabua Power Ltd. 32,50,00,000 10 1,965.23 2,021.21
10.02.2017. GoK has in-principally agreed for the exit of the NTPC Ltd. subject to valuation of NTPC’s share based on
(32,50,00,000) (10)
up-to-date audited results of TELK. The Company is following up with TELK for obtaining the updated audited results
KSK Dibbin Hydro Power Private Ltd. (Joint venture 2,79,30,000 10 4.45 4.43 which are yet to be completed.
of Subsidiary Company, NEEPCO Ltd.) (2,79,30,000) (10)
g) In respect of Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Ltd.,(HURL) a joint venture of the Company, Department of Fertiliser
Trincomalee Power Company Ltd. 32,86,061 100* 0.86 0.41
(DoF) has communicated to explore possibility of disinvestment in HURL vide letter dated 12 October 2022.
(* Srilankan rupees) (32,86,061) (100)*
Consequently, approvals of Board and respective ministries have been obtained by all the three lead promoters
Bangladesh-India Friendship Power Company 16,00,00,000 100** 1,482.39 1,050.63 (IOCL, NTPC & CIL) for disinvestment. HURL has sought clarification from DoF with respect to disinvestment of 10.99
Private Ltd. (** Bangladeshi Taka) (13,92,50,000) (100)** % shareholding of fertilizer companies (FCIL / HFCL), who had provided land on lease to HURL, and the same is
Indian Oil NTPC Green Energy Pvt Ltd 50,000 10 0.05 - awaited.
(-) (-)
Total 15,130.96 13,252.09
Aggregate amount of unquoted investments 15,130.96 13,252.09
508 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 509
7. Non-current financial assets - Investments Steel Authority oif India Ltd & ICVPL regarding DIPAM guidelines for consideration. Pending withdrawal, the Company
````` Crore had lost the joint control over the entity and accordingly, has classified the investment in ICVPL as ‘Investment in
unquoted equity instruments’.
Particulars Number of Face value per As at As at
instruments instrument in 31 March 31 March d) The Board of Directors of NTPC Limited in its meeting held on 19 June 2014 accorded in principle approval for
Current year/ Current year/ 2024 2023 withdrawal from BF-NTPC Energy Systems Ltd. (BF-NTPC), a joint venture of the Company. As BF-NTPC was formed
(previous year) (previous year)
by a directive from the GOI, approval of the GOI was sought for exit by the Company. Ministry of Power, GoI conveyed
Equity instruments (fully paid up - unless otherwise stated) its approval for winding up of BF-NTPC on 8 January 2018. Consequently, liquidator was appointed in the extra-
ordinary general meeting of BF-NTPC held on 9 October 2018. The winding up is under process. Pursuant to winding
Quoted (designated at fair value through other
up proceedings, the Company had lost the joint control over the entity and accordingly, has classified the investment
comprehensive income)
in BF NTPC as ‘Investment in unquoted equity instruments’. The difference between the cost of investment and the
PTC India Ltd. 1,20,00,000 10 223.20 102.30
fair value has been provided for in the earlier years.
(1,20,00,000) (10)
e) The Group is of the view that provisions of Ind AS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’ and Ind AS 111 ‘Joint Arrangements’
223.20 102.30
are not applicable to the investments made in PTC India Ltd., International Coal Ventures Private Ltd. and BF-NTPC
Unquoted (measured at fair value through profit or loss) Energy systems Ltd., and the same has been accounted for as per the provisions of Ind AS 109 ‘Financial Instruments’.
International Coal Ventures Private Ltd. 14,00,000 10 1.40 1.40 Also Refer Note 61 for investments in PTC India Ltd.
(14,00,000) (10)
f) Investment for 5% equity stake of PXIL acquired by NVVN (a subsidiary of the Company) from NSE Investment
BF-NTPC Energy Systems Ltd. 68,48,681 10 2.38 2.38 Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of National Stock Exchange of India Limited, to gain exposure of evolving power
(68,48,681) (10) market, Transactional & Decision-making support, Commercial Discounts and Incentives, Specific Product
3.78 3.78 development in line with Company’s requirement, Capacity Building and other business advisory goals.
Unquoted (designated at fair value through other g) The number of Debentures of Jhabua Power Limited mentioned above includes current portion of Debentures to be
comprehensive income) redeemed.
Power Exchange India limited (PXIL) 29,23,503 10 1.62 1.62 h) No strategic investments in equity instruments measured at FVTOCI were disposed during the financial year 2023-
(29,23,503) (10) 24, and there were no transfers of any cumulative gain or loss within equity relating to these investments.
Co-operative societies # # i) Movement in quoted investments
Debt instruments in Joint Venture Companies (fully paid up) ````` Crore
Unquoted (measured at amortised cost) Particulars As at As at
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Jhabua Power Limited-8.5% Non convertible debentures - 5,24,99,994 100 475.00 525.00
private placement -Redeemable in forty eight quarterly (5,74,99,994) (100) Opening balance 102.30 98.70
equal installments (Refer Note 14 for current portion of
Add / less: Mark to Market gain / loss through FVTOCI 120.90 3.60
the instrument and Note 6b) for details of transaction)
Closing balance 223.20 102.30
Total 703.60 632.70
Aggregate amount of quoted investments - at cost 12.00 12.00
8. Non-current financial assets - Loans
Aggregate market value of the quoted investments 223.20 102.30
````` Crore
Aggregate amount of unquoted investments 480.40 530.40
Particulars As at As at
# Equity shares of ````` 30,200/- (31 March 2023: ` 30,200/-) held in various employee co-operative societies. 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
a) Investments have been valued as per material accounting policy no. C.22.1 (Note 1). Loans (Considered good, unless otherwise stated)
b) The Board of Directors of NTPC Ltd in its meeting held on 28 April 2016 accorded in principle approval for withdrawal Related parties
from PTC India Ltd. (PTC). As the Company was formed by a directive from the GOI, approval of the GOI was required
Unsecured 0.08 12.43
for exit by NTPC. Ministry of Power has accorded permission for NTPC to exit from PTC on 22 February 2022. Further
in line with the MOP directive that all the Promoter CPSEs along with DVC may exit together in one go from PTC, Considered doubtful - 3.09
NTPC Board in its 529th meeting held on 19 May 2023 has accorded approval for exit of NTPC along with other
Less: Allowance for bad and doubtful loans - 3.09
CPSEs from PTC. NTPC is in discussion with other CPSEs & Merchant Banker to finalize the modalities of exit from
0.08 12.43
PTC.
Employees (including accrued interest)
c) The Board of Directors of NTPC Limited in its meeting held on 27 January 2012 accorded in principle approval for
withdrawal from International Coal Ventures Private Ltd. (ICVPL). NTPC Board has accorded fresh approval for exiting Secured 385.01 341.09
from ICVPL on 20 May 2022. Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM) of GoI vide OM
Unsecured 172.18 183.02
dated 1 June 2022 has empowered Board of Directors of Public Sector Undertakings to exit from Joint Ventures and
Subsidiaries and send proposal to DIPAM through administrative Ministry for approval. Communication sent to
510 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 511
````` Crore 10. Non-current assets - Other financial assets
Particulars As at As at ````` Crore
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 Particulars As at As at
Others 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Unsecured 12.92 17.23 Share application money pending allotment in
Total 570.19 553.77 Joint venture companies
a) Due from directors and officers of the Group Meja Urja Nigam Private Limited - 7.49
Directors 0.08 - NTPC-Tamil Nadu Energy Company Ltd. - 30.00
Officers - 0.20 Trincomalee Power Company Ltd. - 0.44
b) Loans to related parties include: - 37.93
Key management personnel 0.08 0.20 Claims recoverable 485.07 517.28
National High Power Test Laboratory Private Ltd. - 11.63 Finance lease receivables (Refer Note 74) - 201.56
(Joint venture company) (net of allowance for bad & doubtful loans)
Mine closure deposit 142.91 66.16
NTPC Education and Research Society - 0.60
Security deposit 82.50 77.77
c) Other loans include loan of ````` 12.90 crore (31 March 2023: ` 17.20 crore) given to Andhra Pradesh Industrial
Bank deposit with more than 12 months maturity 0.32 -
Infrastructure Corporation Ltd. (APIIC) which is covered by a guarantee given by the Government of Andhra Pradesh
vide GO dated 3 April 2003. Total 710.80 900.70
d) Loans to the employees are secured against the mortgage of the house properties and hypothecation of vehicles
a) Claims recoverable includes amount outstanding as recoverable from GOI of ````` 483.37 crore (31 March 2023:
for which such loans have been given in line with the policies of the Group.
` 517.28 crore) in respect of one of the hydro power projects, the construction of which has been discontinued on
the advice of the Ministry of Power (MOP), GOI in the year 2010. The aforesaid amount includes ````` 269.93 crore (31
9. Non-current financial assets - Trade Receivable
March 2023: ` 302.16 crore) in respect of arbitration awards challenged by the Company before Hon’ble High Court
````` Crore of Delhi for which corresponding liability exists under Current liabilities - Provisions - Provision for arbitration awards
Particulars As at As at (Note 38). In the event the Hon’ble High Court grants relief to the Company, the amount would be adjusted against
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 the amount recoverable from GOI. Management expects that the total cost incurred, anticipated expenditure on
the safety and stabilisation measures, other recurring site expenses and interest costs as well as claims of contractors/
Trade receivables
vendors for various packages for this project will be compensated in full by the GOI.
Unsecured, considered good 1,287.54 2,638.68
b) The Company had ascertained that the Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) entered into for Stage-I of a power station
with the beneficiary falls under the definition of finance lease. Accordingly, the written down value of the specified
a) Pursuant to Electricity (Late Payment Surcharge and Related Matters) Rules, 2022 notified on 3 June 2022 and the
assets was derecognized from PPE and accounted as Finance Lease Receivable (FLR) on transition to Ind AS. The
application made by some of the beneficiaries for redetermination of their payment of dues under these Rules, the
Company has continued to classify this arrangement with its customer as lease based on the practical expedient
outstanding dues of such beneficiaries including late payment surcharge (LPSC) have been rescheduled upto a
provided in Ind AS 116. Accordingly, recovery of capacity charges towards depreciation, interest on loan capital &
maximum period of 48 months in the manner prescribed in the said Rules and no LPSC are charged on the outstanding
return on equity (pre-tax) components from the beneficiary are continued to be adjusted against FLR. The interest
dues. The dues of such beneficiaries have been presented at their fair value under Non- current Trade Receivables
component of the FLR and amount received on account of revision of tariff of previous periods in respect of the
considering the requirements of applicable Indian Accounting Standards. Consequently, the fair value difference
above three elements are continued to be recognised as ‘Interest income on Assets under finance lease’ under
amounting to ````` 37.74 crore (31 March 2023: ` 425.61 crore) has been charged to Statement of Profit and Loss (Refer
‘Revenue from operations’ (Note 42).
Note 48). Out of the above, an amount of ````` 169.63 crore (31 March 2023: ` 163.58 crore) has been accounted as
interest from non current trade receivables. Refer Note 43. c) As per the guidelines from Ministry of Coal, Government of India for preparation of Mine Closure Plan, Escrow
Accounts have been opened for each captive mine and the balances held in these escrow accounts are presented as
b) No amount is receivable from related party.
‘Mine closure deposit’. Up to 80% of the total deposited amount including interest accrued in the escrow account
shall be released after every five years in line with the periodic examination of the closure plan as per the Guidelines.
Interest earned on the escrow account is added to mine closure deposit account.
512 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 513
11. Non-current assets - Deferred tax assets (net) As at 31 March 2023 ` Crore
````` Crore Particulars As at Recognised Recognised Others As at
Particulars As at As at 1 April in statement of in OCI 31 March
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 2022 profit and loss 2023
Unabsorbed depreciation 984.66 (22.11) - - 962.55
Deferred tax assets
MAT credit entitlement 163.55 47.90 - - 211.45
Provisions 70.55 70.27
Others 72.38 (0.53) - - 71.85
Leave encashment 56.64 41.52
Less: Deferred tax liabilities
Unabsorbed depreciation 945.54 962.55
Difference in book depreciation 316.70 102.45 - 0.64 419.79
MAT credit entitlement 501.46 211.45
and tax depreciation
Others 72.43 71.85
Deferred tax assets (net) 995.70 (57.18) - (0.67) 937.85
Less: Deferred tax liabilities
Difference in book depreciation and tax depreciation 476.72 419.79 12. Other non-current assets
Total 1,169.90 937.85 ````` Crore
a) Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities have been offset to the extent they relate to the same governing Particulars As at As at
laws. 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
b) The Group has been recognising MAT credit available as the same is likely to give future economic benefits in the Capital advances
form of availability of set off against future income tax liability. (Considered good unless otherwise stated)
c) Disclosures as per Ind AS 12 ‘Income Taxes’ are provided in Note 57. Secured 1.45 1.88
Unsecured
Movement in deferred tax assets (net) balances
Covered by bank guarantee 4,730.08 4,175.96
As at 31 March 2024 ````` Crore
Others 5,220.29 5,662.68
Particulars As at Recognised Recognised Others As at
Considered doubtful 178.35 192.33
1 April in statement of in OCI 31 March
Less: Allowance for bad and doubtful advances 178.35 192.33
2023 profit and loss 2024
9,951.82 9,840.52
Deferred tax assets
Advances other than capital advances
Provisions 70.27 0.28 - - 70.55
(Considered good unless otherwise stated)
Leave encashment 41.52 15.12 - - 56.64
Security deposits (unsecured) 306.28 309.45
Unabsorbed depreciation 962.55 (17.01) - - 945.54
Advances to contractors and suppliers
MAT credit entitlement 211.45 290.01 - - 501.46
Unsecured 1,666.51 1,810.82
Others 71.85 0.58 - - 72.43 Considered doubtful 112.57 112.57
Less: Deferred tax liabilities Less: Allowances for bad and doubtful advances 112.57 112.57
Difference in book depreciation 419.79 54.40 - 2.53 476.72 1,666.51 1,810.82
and tax depreciation
Prepaid Expenses 28.98 25.51
Deferred tax assets (net) 937.85 234.58 - (2.53) 1,169.90 Advance tax and tax deducted at source 16,956.01 15,184.41
Less: Provision for tax 14,560.75 12,553.28
As at 31 March 2023 ` Crore
2,395.26 2,631.13
Particulars As at Recognised Recognised Others As at
Deferred foreign currency fluctuation asset 1,486.57 1,565.41
1 April in statement of in OCI 31 March
Deferred payroll expenditure 117.79 111.77
2022 profit and loss 2023
Deferred tax assets Adjustable from escrow account towards mine closure expenses 62.82 39.30
Others 0.14 -
Provisions 70.06 0.24 - (0.03) 70.27
Total 16,016.17 16,333.91
Leave encashment 21.75 19.77 - - 41.52
514 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 515
a) In line with material accounting policy no. 13 (Note 1), deferred foreign currency fluctuation asset has been accounted ````` Crore
and ````` 89.79 crore (31 March 2023: ` 830.98 crore) being the exchange fluctuations on account of foreign currency
Particulars As at As at
loans have been adjusted in ‘Energy sales’ under ‘Revenue from operations’ (Note-42). Further, an amount of
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
````` 10.95 crore (31 March 2023: ` 915.67 crore) has been recognised as deferred foreign currency fluctuation asset
corresponding to exchange differences capitalised during the year. Inventories include material-in-transit
b) Capital advances include amounts given as advance against works to the following private companies (related parties) Coal 505.41 432.39
in which one or more directors of the Company are directors:
Stores and spares 16.96 20.54
NTPC BHEL Power Projects Private Ltd. 281.96 274.25
Chemicals and consumables 5.46 2.20
c) Capital advances include ````` 224.29 crore (31 March 2023: ` 224.29 crore), paid to a contractor pending settlement of
Loose tools 0.01 0.04
certain claims which are under litigation. The amount will be adjusted with the cost of related work or recovered
Others 2.08 6.68
from the party, depending upon the outcome of the legal proceedings.
d) Advances to contractors and suppliers include payments to Railways amounting to ````` 1,580.42 crore (31 March a) Inventory items have been valued as per material accounting policy no. C.8 (Note 1).
2023: ` 1,708.03 crore) under customer funding model as per policy on ‘Participative model for rail-connectivity
b) Inventories - Others includes steel, cement, ash bricks etc.
and capacity augmentation projects’ issued by the Ministry of Railways, GOI. As per this policy, an agreement has
been signed between the Company and the Ministry of Railways, GOI on 6 June 2016. As per the agreement, railway c) Refer Note 33 and 55(b) for information on inventories pledged as security by the Group.
projects agreed between the Company and Railways will be constructed, maintained and operated by Railways and
d) Refer Note 55(a) for information on inventories consumed and recognised as expense during the year.
ownership of the line and its operations and maintenance will always remain with them. Railways will pay upto 7%
of the amount invested through freight rebate on freight volumes every year till the funds provided by the Company e) Paragraph 32 of Ind AS 2 - Inventories provides that materials and other supplies held for use in the production of
are fully recovered along-with interest (equal to the prevailing rate of dividend payable by Railways at the time of inventories are not written down below cost if the finished products in which they will be incorporated are expected
signing of respective agreements), subject to the rebate not exceeding the freight amount in the accounting year, to be sold at or above cost. The Group is mainly operating in the regulatory environment and as per CERC Tariff
after commercial operation date (COD) of the railway projects. The advance is adjusted at projects which have Regulations, cost of fuel and other inventory items are recovered as per extant tariff regulations. Accordingly, the
achieved COD based on confirmation from Railways towards freight rebate in consonance with the agreement realizable value of the inventories is not lower than the cost.
terms and the interest portion is recognised in Note-43-’Other income’.
14. Current financial assets - Investments
e) Secured capital advances are secured against the hypothecation of the construction equipment/material supplied
by the contractors/suppliers. ````` Crore
f) Loans given to employees are measured at amortized cost. The deferred payroll expenditure represents the benefits Particulars As at As at
on account of interest rate on loans being lower than the market rate of interest. The same is amortized on a 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
straight-line basis over the remaining period of the loan. Current maturity of non current investments
Debt instruments in Joint Venture Companies (fully paid up) Unquoted
13. Current assets - Inventories
(measured at amortised cost)
````` Crore
Jhabua Power Limited-8.5% Non convertible debentures-private placement 50.00 50.00
Particulars As at As at
(Refer Note 7)
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Total 50.00 50.00
Coal 7,664.73 5,167.77
Fuel oil 885.48 901.76 a) Investments have been valued as per material accounting policy no. C.22 (Note 1)
Naphtha 83.66 85.05
15. Current financial assets - Trade receivables
Stores and spares 7,619.29 6,621.69
````` Crore
Chemicals and consumables 314.25 252.52
Particulars As at As at
Loose tools 16.34 14.59 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Others 1,686.42 1,410.48 Trade receivables
18,270.17 14,453.86 Unsecured, considered good 33,349.68 30,112.41
Less: Provision for shortages 20.13 17.18 Credit impaired 258.57 561.72
Provision for obsolete/unserviceable items/ diminution 230.92 196.31 33,608.25 30,674.13
in value of surplus inventory
Less: Allowance for credit impaired trade receivables 258.57 561.72
Total 18,019.12 14,240.37
Total 33,349.68 30,112.41
516 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 517
a) Amounts receivable from related parties are disclosed in Note 61. Trade Receivables ageing schedule as at 31 March 2023
b) Trade receivables include unbilled revenue amounting to ````` 14,894.62 crore (31 March 2023: ` 12,689.29 crore) ````` Crore
billed to the beneficiaries after 31 March. Particulars Unbilled Not Due Outstanding for following periods from due Total
date of payment
c) The carrying amount of trade receivables include receivables amounting to ````` 1,974.49 crore (31 March 2023:
Less than 6 months - 1-2 2-3 More than
` 1,287.19 crore) towards bills of customers discounted through bill discounting facility availed from banks. The
6 months 1 year years years 3 years
facility is with recourse to the Company i.e. if the customer fails to make payment on due date, the Company will be
(i) Undisputed Trade receivables – 13,959.59 9,178.09 3,344.08 1,675.52 170.79 17.32 165.59 28,510.98
required to make the payment. Under this arrangement, the Company has transferred the receivables to the bank in
considered good
exchange for cash and is prevented from selling or pledging the receivables. Further, the Company has retained
(ii) Undisputed Trade Receivables – - - - - - - - -
substantially all of the risks and rewards, primarily late payment and credit risk, therefore these trade receivables
which have significant increase
have not been derecognized from the balance sheet. The amount received from the bank under the facility has
in credit risk
been recognized under ‘Current financial liabilities – Borrowings (Secured)’ (refer Note 33(e)). The Company considers
(iii) Undisputed Trade Receivables – - - - - - - - -
that the held to collect business model remains appropriate for these receivables and accordingly, continues to
credit impaired
measure them at amortised cost.
(iv) Disputed Trade Receivables– - 25.56 139.95 130.12 677.94 151.36 458.75 1,583.68
d) The margin and other tariff have been billed to Discoms including Rajasthan as per the guidelines of MNRE for considered good
JNNSM-I uniformly by M/s NVVN Ltd., a subsidiary of the Company. However, three Rajasthan Discoms have not (v) Disputed Trade Receivables – - 0.28 17.47 - - - 85.42 103.17
paid the bills issued amounting to ````` 13.13 crore (31 March 2023: ` 13.13 crore). The above cases were filed with which have significant increase
Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (CERC) wherein CERC has decided in favour of the subsidiary in all the in credit risk
matters stated above. However, in all the above cases Rajasthan Discoms have filed appeal with Appellate Tribunal (vi) Disputed Trade Receivables – - - - - 26.66 29.99 419.65 476.30
credit impaired
for Electricity (ATE) against order of CERC. The case is pending with ATE. Hence, the subsidiary has not considered
making provision for these outstanding dues in the Books. Sub-total 13,959.59 9,203.93 3,501.50 1,805.64 875.39 198.67 1,129.41 30,674.13
Less: Allowance for credit impaired - - - - 26.66 29.99 505.07 561.72
e) Further, in matters related to outstanding dues towards payment of trading margin @1.5 paise/unit instead of 7.0
trade receivables
paise/unit in respect of M/s NVVN Ltd, CERC has advised to decide the matter with mutual consent. However, the
Total 13,959.59 9,203.93 3,501.50 1,805.64 848.73 168.68 624.34 30,112.41
subsidiary has filed appeal with Appellate Tribunal for Electricity (ATE) against CERC order and requested ATE to
direct Rajasthan Discoms to make payment of differential trading margin and surcharge thereon. The case is pending
16. Current financial assets - Cash and cash equivalents
with ATE. Based on order of CERC a provision for the disputed amount of ` 85.15 crore has been recognised during
the financial year 2019-20. ````` Crore
f) Credit impaired receivables as at 31 March 2024 also include dues of M/s Ratnagiri Gas & Power Pvt. Ltd, a subsidiary Particulars As at As at
of the Company amounting to ````` 171.66 crore (31 March 2023 : ` 474.81 crore) towards non payment of dues by its 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
beneficiaries considering the uncertainty involved.
Balances with banks
(g) Trade Receivables ageing schedule as at 31 March 2024
Current accounts 861.33 372.18
````` Crore
Deposits with original maturity upto three months 1.94 92.50
Particulars Unbilled Not Due Outstanding for following periods from due Total
date of payment (including interest accrued)
Less than 6 months - 1-2 2-3 More than
Cheques and drafts on hand 0.03 0.92
6 months 1 year years years 3 years
Others (stamps on hand) 0.04 0.05
(i) Undisputed Trade receivables – 15,177.48 10,560.14 5,218.24 114.01 33.57 20.18 1,096.75 32,220.37
considered good Total 863.34 465.65
(ii) Undisputed Trade Receivables – -
which have significant increase
in credit risk
(iii) Undisputed Trade Receivables – -
credit impaired
(iv) Disputed Trade Receivables– 0.29 26.56 67.10 117.71 107.70 509.86 300.09 1,129.31
considered good
(v) Disputed Trade Receivables – -
which have significant increase
in credit risk
(vi) Disputed Trade Receivables – - - - - - 27.97 230.60 258.57
credit impaired
Sub-total 15,177.77 10,586.70 5,285.34 231.72 141.27 558.01 1,627.44 33,608.25
Less: Allowance for credit - - - - - 27.97 230.60 258.57
impaired trade receivables
Total 15,177.77 10,586.70 5,285.34 231.72 141.27 530.04 1,396.84 33,349.68
518 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 519
17. Current financial assets - Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents 18. Current financial assets - Loans
````` Crore ````` Crore
Particulars As at As at Particulars As at As at
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Deposits with original maturity of more than three months 3041.98 1691.54 Loans (including interest accrued)
and maturing within one year (including interest accrued)
(Considered good unless otherwise stated)
Earmarked balances with banks # 2,942.02 2,791.34
Related parties
Total 5,984.00 4,482.88
Secured
# Earmarked balances with banks towards:
Unsecured - 1.64
Redemption of bonds due for repayment within one year 723.00 1,033.00
Considered doubtful - 3.68
Fly ash utilisation reserve fund* 919.09 743.27
Less: Allowance for bad and doubtful loans - 3.68
DDUGJY Scheme of the GOI** 283.66 286.13
- 1.64
Unpaid dividend account balance 17.74 19.07
Employees
Amount deposited as per court orders 59.53 57.89
Secured 91.83 84.25
Unpaid interest/refund account balance - Bonds 12.12 9.04
Unsecured 174.99 178.59
Payment Security Fund - MNRE(a) 49.18 38.01
Others
Payment Security Scheme of MNRE(b) 243.06 168.02
Unsecured 4.30 4.30
Unpaid interest on public deposit 0.03 0.03 Total 271.12 268.78
Amount received under PM-Kusum Scheme 0.01 0.01
a) Due from Directors and Officers of the Group
Margin money 149.36 119.76
Directors - 0.16
Amount deposited-arbitration cases - 0.53
Officers - 0.10
Amount received on sale of old plant & held on 331.79 311.07
b) Loans to related parties include:
behalf of Government of Jharkhand
Key management personnel - 0.26
Others 153.45 5.51
Total 2,942.02 2,791.34 National High Power Test Laboratory Private Ltd. - 1.38
(Joint venture company) (net of allowance for bad & doubtful loan)
* Refer Note 25 (f) regarding fly ash utilization reserve fund.
c) Other loans represent interest on loan of ````` 4.30 crore (31 March 2023: loan of ` 4.30 crore) given to APIIC which is
** Out of advance for DDUGJY Scheme of the GOI. Refer Note 36(b) and 37(a).
covered by a guarantee given by the Government of Andhra Pradesh vide GO dated 3 April 2003.
a) In line with the guidelines issued by Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE), GOI under National Solar d) Loans to the employees are secured against the mortgage of the house properties and hypothecation of vehicles for
Mission-II, a Payment Security Mechanism (PSM) /Working Capital Fund will be set up/created by the MNRE. Upon which such loans have been given in line with the policies of the Group.
creation of the said fund, amounts accrued from encashment of bank guarantee, penalties/liquidated damages on
developers deducted by the Company from the Solar Power Developers (SPDs) as per the guidelines of MNRE shall 19. Current assets - Other financial assets
be transferred to this fund. Subsequently, MNRE has asked the Company to maintain the PSM fund. The fund is ````` Crore
retained till further directions for payment to MNRE or any other authority as may be directed.
Particulars As at As at
b) The Performance Guarantee Deposit (PGD) deducted by the Company from the SPDs in line with the MNRE Guidelines 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
are earmarked for the purpose specified therein and is not available for use by the Company. The PGD shall be
Advances
refunded to SPD without interest within three months after expiry of the 25 Year term of PPA subject to satisfactory
performance of the project. In case the developer winds up his project or terminates the PPA prior to the completion (Considered good unless otherwise stated)
of the 25 Year term of PPA, the PGD shall be forfeited. Further the PGD may also be used in PSM.
Related parties
c) Funds received from MNRE under payment security scheme. For corresponding liability refer Note 36(g).
Unsecured 21.72 129.95
Employees
Unsecured 27.90 30.67
520 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 521
````` Crore 20. Current assets - Current tax assets (net)
````` Crore
Particulars As at As at
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 Particulars As at As at
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Considered doubtful 0.11 0.11
Current tax assets (net) 46.78 93.51
Less: Allowance for bad and doubtful advances 0.11 0.11
27.90 30.67
21. Current assets - Other current assets
Others ````` Crore
Unsecured 1.35 2.49 Particulars As at As at
50.97 163.11 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Claims recoverable Security deposits
Unsecured 1,898.68 2,349.73
Unsecured, considered good 245.05 635.76
Considered doubtful 500.00 -
Considered doubtful 361.71 349.32
Less: Allowance for bad and doubtful advances 500.00 -
Less: Allowance for doubtful claims 361.71 349.32
1,898.68 2,349.73
245.05 635.76 Advances
Contract assets 10,992.65 7,306.43 (Considered good unless otherwise stated)
Related parties
Finance lease receivables 211.01 83.63
Unsecured 96.70 0.31
Mine closure deposit 26.09 37.31
Employees
Security deposits 1,566.83 535.95
Unsecured 6.51 6.36
Hedging cost recoverable 10.51 - Contractors and suppliers
Others 109.60 149.88 Unsecured 4,770.76 4,584.05
Considered doubtful 17.78 18.87
Total 13,212.71 8,912.07
Less: Allowance for bad and doubtful advances 17.78 18.87
a) Contract Assets represent Company’s right to consideration in exchange for goods and services that the Company 4,770.76 4,584.05
has transferred / provided to customers when that right is conditioned on matters, other than passage of time, like Prepaid expenses 119.79 113.24
receipt of income tax assessment orders, trueing up orders from CERC,etc. and are net of credits to be passed to
Others
customers.
Unsecured 116.10 11.58
b) Advances to related parties include: 5,109.86 4,715.54
Interest accrued on
Joint venture companies 59.13 76.77
Advance to contractors 63.93 68.45
Post employment benefits Trusts 44.17 88.11
Claims recoverable
Unsecured, considered good 4,094.01 3,968.68
c) Advances include amounts due from the following private companies (related parties) in which one or more directors
of the Company are directors: Considered doubtful 136.18 136.43
Less: Allowance for doubtful claims 136.18 136.43
NTPC-GE Power Services Private Ltd. 4.25 3.30
4,094.01 3,968.68
Aravali Power Company Private Ltd. 14.99 15.64
Deferred payroll expenditure 23.48 21.60
NTPC BHEL Power Projects Private Ltd. 3.14 1.20
Adjustable from Escrow Account for mine closure expenses 28.80 28.15
Meja Urja Nigam Private Ltd. 18.60 7.34 Others 20.02 8.12
Total 11,238.78 11,160.27
d) Other financial assets - Others include amount recoverable from contractors and other parties towards hire charges,
rent/electricity etc. a) Security deposits (unsecured) include ````` 50.73 crore (31 March 2023: ` 65.71 crore) towards sales tax/GST deposited
with sales/commercial tax authorities & others, ````` 1,233.32 crore (31 March 2023: ` 1,458.49 crore) deposited with
Courts, ````` 223.20 crore (31 March 2023: ` 218.83 crore) deposited with LIC for making annuity payments to the land
oustees. Further an amount of ` 500.00 crore (31 March 2023: ` 500.00 crore) has been deposited against bank
guarantee with one of the party as per the direction of the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India, refer Note 64 (iii).
522 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 523
b) Advances - Related parties include amounts due from the following private companies in which one or more directors a) Regulatory deferral account balances have been accounted in line with Material Accounting policy no. C.5 (Note 1).
of the Company are directors: Refer Note 41 for Regulatory deferral account credit balances. Refer Note 72 for detailed disclosures.
NTPC-GE Power Services Private Ltd. - 0.02 b) CERC Tariff Regulations, 2019 provide for recovery of deferred tax liability (DTL) as at 31 March 2009 from the
beneficiaries. Accordingly, DTL as at 31 March 2009 is recoverable on materialisation from the beneficiaries.
c) Loans given to employees are measured at amortized cost. The deferred payroll expenditure represents the benefits
Regulations, 2014 and Regulations, 2019 provide for grossing-up the rate of return on equity based on effective tax
on account of interest rate on loans being lower than the market rate of interest. The same is amortized on a
rate for the financial year based on the actual tax paid during the year on the generation income. Accordingly,
straight-line basis over the remaining period of the loan.
deferred tax liability for the period from 1 April 2014 will be reversed in future years when the related DTL forms
d) Claims recoverable includes claims against Railways amounting to ````` 2,033.12 crore (31 March 2023: ` 2,080.38 part of current tax. Keeping in view the above, the Group has recognized such deferred tax as regulatory deferral
crore) mainly towards diversion of coal rakes. These are regularly reviewed and reconciled with the Indian Railways account debit balances, since the amounts are recoverable in future years.
periodically. Claims recoverable also includes claims amounting to ````` 1,725.37 crore (31 March 2023: ` 1,615.66
crore) made against coal companies towards various issues eg. credit notes to be received as per referee results for
24. Equity share capital
grade slippages, supply of stones, claims under settlement through AMRCD, surface transportation charges,etc.
````` Crore
Particulars As at As at
22. Assets held for sale
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
````` Crore
Equity share capital
Particulars As at As at
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 Authorised
Land 0.17 4.21 16,60,00,00,000 shares of par value ` 10/- each 16,600.00 16,600.00
(16,60,00,00,000 shares of par value ` 10/- each as at 31 March 2023)
Building 9.60 21.46
Issued, subscribed and fully paid up
Plant and equipment 104.70 92.90
9,69,66,66,134 shares of par value ` 10/- each 9,696.67 9,696.67
Other assets 3.30 2.35
(9,69,66,66,134 shares of par value ` 10/- each as at 31 March 2023)
Total 117.77 120.92
a) The Company has surplus land of 0.83 acres (31 March 2023: 20.87 acres) which is under process of disposal. The a) Reconciliation of the shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the year:
Company expects that the fair value (estimated based on market values) less costs to sell is higher than their carrying
values and hence no impairment is considered necessary. Particulars Number of shares
b) Plant and equipment and Other assets (Office equipment, vehicles,furniture and fixtures,etc.) have been identified 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
for disposal due to replacement/ obsolescence of assets which happens in the normal course of operations. On At the beginning of the year 9,69,66,66,134 9,69,66,66,134
account of classification of these assets from Property, plant and equipment, the loss recognised in the statement of
Outstanding at the end of the year 9,69,66,66,134 9,69,66,66,134
profit and loss is not material.
c) These assets are expected to be disposed off within the next twelve months. b) Terms and rights attached to equity shares:
d) The Group has not reclassified any of the assets classified as held for sale as Property, plant and equipment during The Company has only one class of equity shares having a par value ` 10/- per share. The holders of the equity
the year as well as in the previous year. shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to voting rights proportionate
to their share holding at the meetings of shareholders.
23. Regulatory deferral account debit balances
c) Dividends:
````` Crore
````` Crore
Particulars As at As at Particulars Paid during the year ended
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
On account of
(i) Dividends paid and recognised during the year
Exchange differences 197.00 1,208.25 Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2023 of ````` 3.00 2,909.00 2,909.00
(31 March 2022: ` 3.00) per equity share
Employee benefits expense 62.48 177.75
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2024 of ````` 4.50 4,363.50 4,121.08
Deferred tax 14,113.90 11,447.79
(31 March 2023: ` 4.25) per equity share
Ash transportation cost 107.18 97.55
(ii) Dividends not recognised at the end of the reporting period 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Arbitration Award 111.80 - In addition to the above dividends, since year end the directors have 3,151.42 2,909.00
recommended the payment of a final dividend of `````3.25(31 March 2023:
Others 263.67 221.93
` 3.00) per fully paid equity share. This proposed dividend is subject to
Total 14,856.03 13,153.27
the approval of shareholders in the ensuing Annual General Meeting.
524 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 525
d) Details of shareholders holding more than 5% shares in the Company: (a) Capital reserve
Particulars As at 31 March 2024 ````` Crore
No. of shares %age holding Particulars For the year For the year
ended ended
- President of India 4,95,53,46,251 51.10
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Opening balance 2,314.63 488.69
Particulars 31 March 2023
No. of shares %age holding Add: Addition during the year 20.04 1,825.94
- President of India 4,95,53,46,251 51.10 Closing balance 2,334.67 2,314.63
- Life Insurance Corporation of India 57,41,73,389 5.92 Opening capital reserve represents amount received by the parent company as consideration under settlement for
(including shares held in various Funds/Schemes) withdrawal from a erstwhile JV project, acquisition of M/s RGPPL, a subsidiary of the Company. Addition during the
previous year represents value of difference between net aseets acquired and consideration paid for acquisiton of 50%
- ICICI Prudential Mutual Fund 55,60,01,423 5.73
stake in Jhabua Power Limited, a joint venture of the company. This amount will be utilised as per the provisions of the
e) Increase in the authorised share capital Companies Act, 2013.
During the previous year 2022-23, the authorised share capital of the Company has increased from ` 10,000 crore
(b) Other capital reserve - common control
to ` 16,600 crore pursuant to scheme of amalgamation of two subsidiaries of the Company, vide order dated 26 ````` Crore
August 2022 of Ministry of Corporate Affairs, GOI.
Particulars For the year For the year
f) For the period of five years immediately preceeding the Balance sheet date: ended ended
(i) Shares bought back: 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
The Company has bought back 19,78,91,146 equity shares of the Company for an aggregate amount of ` 2,275.75 Opening balance (5,159.26) (5,159.26)
crore being 2% of the total paid up equity share capital at ` 115.00 per equity share, during the financial year
Closing balance (5,159.26) (5,159.26)
2020-21.
Consequent to the acquisition of THDC India Ltd. and NEEPCO in the earlier years, the difference between the Company’s
(ii) Shares allotted as fully paid up by way of bonus shares:
share in their share capitals and the consideration paid, was recognized as other capital reserve - common control.
The Company had issued 164,90,92,880 equity shares of ` 10/- each as fully paid bonus shares in the financial
year 2018-19 in the ratio of one equity share of ` 10/- each for every five equity shares held. (c) Capital redemption reserve
````` Crore
g) Details of shareholding of promoters:
Particulars For the year For the year
Shares held by promoters as at 31 March 2024
ended ended
Sl. No. Promoter name No. of shares %age of total shares %age changes during the year 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
1. President of India 4,95,53,46,251 51.10 Nil Opening balance 197.89 197.89
Shares held by promoters as at 31 March 2023 Closing balance 197.89 197.89
Sl. No. Promoter name No. of shares %age of total shares %age changes during the year Capital redemption reserve is created when company purchases its own shares out of free reserves or securities premium,
as required by Companies Act, 2013. A sum equal to the nominal value of the shares so purchased is transferred to
1. President of India 4,95,53,46,251 51.10 Nil
capital redemption reserve. This reserve will be utilised in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
Also refer Note 24 (f)(i).
25. Other equity
````` Crore (d) Bonds/Debentures redemption reserve
Particulars As at As at ````` Crore
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 Particulars For the year For the year
ended ended
Capital reserve 2,334.67 2,314.63
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Other capital reserve - common control (5,159.26) (5,159.26)
Capital redemption reserve 197.89 197.89 Opening balance 5,851.65 6,421.72
Bonds/debentures redemption reserve 4,134.34 5,851.65 Add : Transfer from retained earnings 77.92 58.50
Self insurance reserve - 200.00 Less: Transfer to retained earnings 1,795.23 628.57
Fly ash utilisation reserve fund 919.09 743.27
Closing balance 4,134.34 5,851.65
General reserve 98,654.79 98,654.79
In accordance with applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rules, the Group has created Debenture
Retained earnings 49,830.51 34,524.11
Redemption Reserve out of profits of the Company, considering the Companies (Share Capital and Debentures)
Items of other comprehensive income 100.57 (0.58) Amendment Rules, 2019 notified on 16 August 2019. The outstanding balance of Bonds / Debenture Redemption
Total 1,51,012.60 1,37,326.50 Reserve will be utilised as and when the respective bonds / debentures are redeemed.
526 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 527
(e) Self insurance reserve (g) General reserve
````` Crore ````` Crore
Particulars For the year For the year Particulars For the year For the year
ended ended ended ended
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Opening balance 200.00 200.00 Opening balance 98,654.79 98,654.79
Less: Transfer to retained earnings 200.00 - Add : Transfer from retained earnings - -
Closing balance - 200.00 Closing balance 98,654.79 98,654.79
Self Insurance reserve was created by M/s RGPPL (a subsidiary of the Company), to cover machinery break down for General reserve is used from time to time to transfer profits from retained earnings for appropriation purposes. The
which the subsidiary has not entered into any insurance cover agreement with insurance companies. This has been same will be utilised as per the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
written back during the year on getting machinery break down cover under agreement entered with insurance companies.
(h) Retained earnings
````` Crore
(f) Fly ash utilisation reserve fund
````` Crore Particulars For the year For the year
ended ended
Particulars For the year For the year
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
ended ended
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 Opening balance 34,524.11 24,156.11
Opening balance 743.27 599.89 Add: Profit for the year as per statement of profit and loss 20,811.89 16,912.55
Add: Transferred during the year: Impact of changes in NCI interest and other adjustments - -
Revenue from operations 495.11 399.37 Transfer from bonds/debentures redemption reserve 1,795.23 628.57
Other income 56.30 29.15 Transfer from Self insurance reserve 200.00 -
Less:Utilised during the year: Less:Transfer to bonds/debentures redemption reserve 77.92 58.50
Capital expenditure 10.16 2.95 Transfer to Non Controlling Interest 27.02 -
Other Expenses including Tax expenses 365.43 282.19 Final dividend paid (2022-23) 2,909.00 2,909.00
Closing balance 919.09 743.27 Interim dividend paid (2023-24) 4,363.50 4,121.08
49,953.79 34,608.65
The principal Gazette Notification dated 14 September 1999 enunciates that every thermal power plant should provide
ash free of cost for 10 years for activities of manufacturing ash-based products or for construction of roads, embankments, Items of other comprehensive income recognised directly in retained
dams, dykes or for any other construction activity. Subsequently, vide Gazette Notification dated 3 November 2009, earnings:
issued by the Ministry of Environment and Forest (MOEF),Government of India (GOI) directed that, the amount collected
- Net actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit plans (net of tax) (128.97) (86.43)
from sale of fly ash and fly ash based products should be kept in a separate account head and shall be utilized only for
the development of infrastructure or facility, promotion & facilitation activities for use of fly ash until 100 percent fly ash - Share of other comprehensive income/(expense) of joint ventures 5.69 1.89
utilization level is achieved. accounted for using the equity method (net of tax)
Vide, Gazette Notification dated 31st December 2021, of Ministry of Environment and Forest and Climate Change Closing balance 49,830.51 34,524.11
(MOEF&CC), GOI which is applicable from 1st April 2022 had superseded all earlier notifications The said notification
Retained Earnings are the profits of the Company earned till date net of appropriations. The same will be utilised for the
does not mention any requirement of keeping the amount thus collected from sale of fly ash and fly ash based products
purposes as per the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
in a separate account. However, the Company continues to maintain the fund for the purposes stated above.
In line with various CERC orders on reimbursement of ash transportation, the Company spends the amounts collected (i) Items of other comprehensive income
from sale of fly ash and fly ash-based products for offsetting it against the expenditure incurred by respective Station for
(I) Reserve for equity instruments through OCI
transportation of ash to agencies engaged in construction activities such as road laying, road and flyover embankments,
````` Crore
shoreline protection structures in coastal districts and dams.
Particulars For the year For the year
The fund balance has been kept in ‘Bank balances other than cash & cash equivalents’ (Note 17). Also refer Note 23 & 72
ended ended
for ash transportation cost.
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Opening balance 90.30 86.70
Add: Fair value gains/(losses) on equity instruments for the year 120.90 3.60
Closing balance (I) 211.20 90.30
528 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 529
The Group has elected to recognize changes in the fair value of certain investments in equity instruments in other ````` Crore
comprehensive income. These changes are accumulated in reserve for equity instruments through OCI within equity.
Particulars As at As at
The Group transfers amounts from this reserve to retained earnings when the relevant equity instruments are
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
derecognized.
8.66% Tax free secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable bonds 319.93 319.87
(II) Foreign currency translation reserve - 2013 of ` 1,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 16 December 2033
````` Crore (Fiftieth Issue - Public Issue - Series 3A)VI
Particulars For the year For the year 8.91% Tax free secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable bonds 410.39 410.32
ended ended - 2013 of ` 1,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 16 December 2033
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 (Fiftieth Issue - Public Issue - Series 3B)VI
7.37% Secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 4,010.99 4,010.41
Opening balance (90.88) 30.54
of ` 10,00,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 14 December 2031 (Sixty
Add: Gain (Loss) on Currency translation of foreign operations (19.75) (121.42) Sixth Issue - Private Placement)II
Closing balance (II) (110.63) (90.88) 7.49% Secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 720.75 720.65
of ` 10,00,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 7 November 2031 (Sixty
Total (I+II) 100.57 (0.58)
Fourth Issue - Private Placement)IV
Exchange differences arising on translation of the joint ventures are recognised in other comprehensive income as
7.28% Tax free secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable bonds 133.53 133.48
described in material accounting policy and accumulated in a separate reserve within equity. The cumulative amount
- 2015 of ` 1,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 5 October 2030 (Fifty
will be reclassified to profit or loss when the net investment is disposed-off.
Sixth Issue - Public Issue - Series 2A)IX
7.53% Tax free secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable bonds 49.96 49.93
26. Non-controlling interest
- 2015 of ` 1,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 5 October 2030 (Fifty
````` Crore Sixth Issue - Public Issue - Series 2B)IX
Particulars As at As at 7.32% Secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 4,522.59 4,522.31
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 of ` 10,00,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 17 July 2029 (Sixty Ninth
Issue - Private Placement)IV
Opening balance 3,930.45 3,760.41
8.63% Tax free secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable bonds 105.70 105.70
Add: Share of profit for the year 520.56 208.80
of ` 10,00,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 4 March 2029 (Fifty First
Share of OCI (2.48) (0.64) Issue B - Private Placement) III
Additional non-controlling interest arising on acquisition/ 182.22 179.63 8.30% Secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 4,069.70 4,068.96
disposal of interest & other adjustments of ` 10,00,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 15 January 2029 (Sixty
Seventh Issue - Private Placement) V
Less: Dividend paid to NCI 217.74 217.75
8.48% Tax free secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable bonds 256.14 256.10
Closing balance 4,413.01 3,930.45 - 2013 of ` 1,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 16 December 2028
(Fiftieth Issue - Public Issue - Series 2A)VI
27. Non current financial liabilities -Borrowings 8.73% Tax free secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable bonds 93.73 93.71
````` Crore - 2013 of ` 1,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 16 December 2028
(Fiftieth Issue - Public Issue - Series 2B)VI
Particulars As at As at
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 7.47% Secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 697.00 696.90
of ` 10,00,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 16 September 2026 (Sixty
Bonds/debentures
Third Issue - Private Placement)IV
Secured
7.58% Secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 836.70 836.61
7.37% Tax free secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable bonds 189.01 188.95
of ` 10,00,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 23 August 2026 (Sixty
- 2015 of ` 1,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 5 October 2035 (Fifty
Second Issue - Private Placement)IV
Sixth Issue - Public Issue - Series 3A)IX
8.05% Secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 1,072.73 1,072.90
7.62% Tax free secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable bonds 171.77 171.71
of ` 10,00,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 5 May 2026 (Sixtieth Issue
- 2015 of ` 1,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 5 October 2035 (Fifty
- Private Placement)IV
Sixth Issue - Public Issue - Series 3B)IX
8.19% Secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 512.02 511.91
8.61% Tax free secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable bonds 322.11 322.11
of ` 10,00,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 15 December 2025 (Fifty
of ` 10,00,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 4 March 2034 (Fifty First
Seventh Issue - Private Placement)IV
Issue C - Private Placement) III
530 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 531
````` Crore ````` Crore
Particulars As at As at Particulars As at As at
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
7.11% Tax free secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable bonds 112.11 112.06 8.10% Secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 763.70 763.99
- 2015 of ` 1,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 5 October 2025 (Fifty of ` 30,00,000/- each redeemable at par in three equal separately
Sixth Issue - Public Issue - Series 1A)IX transferable redeemable principal parts (STRPP) at the end of 5th year, 10th
year & 15th year on 27 May 2021, 27 May 2026 and 27 May 2031 respectively
7.36% Tax free secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable bonds 68.30 68.26
(Sixty first issue - Private Placement)IX
- 2015 of ` 1,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 5 October 2025 (Fifty
Sixth Issue - Public Issue - Series 1B)IX 11.25% Secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds - 73.62
of ` 10,00,000/- each redeemable at par in five equal annual installments
7.15% Tax free secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable bonds 313.13 313.05
commencing from 6 November 2019 and ending on 6 November 2023
- 2015 of ` 10,00,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 21 August 2025
(Twenty Seventh Issue - Private Placement)III
(Fifty Fifth Issue - Private Placement)VII
9.3473% Secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 48.06 53.38
9.17% Secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 1,048.11 1,047.99
of ` 15,00,000/- each with fifteen equal separately transferable redeemable
of ` 10,00,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 22 September 2024 (Fifty
principal parts (STRPP) redeemable at par at the end of 6th year and in annual
Third Issue - Private Placement)VII
installments thereafter upto the end of 20th year respectively commencing
9.34% Secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds - 751.53
from 20 July 2018 and ending on 20 July 2032 (Forty Sixth Issue - Private
of ` 10,00,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 24 March 2024 (Fifty
Placement)VI
Second Issue - Private Placement)III
9.4376% Secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 48.09 53.45
8.19% Tax free secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable bonds - 75.47
of ` 15,00,000/- each with fifteen equal separately transferable redeemable
- 2013 of ` 10,00,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 4 March 2024 (Fifty
principal parts (STRPP) redeemable at par at the end of 6th year and in annual
First Issue A - Private Placement)III
installments thereafter upto the end of 20th year respectively commencing
8.41% Tax free secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable bonds - 499.95 from 16 May 2018 and ending on 16 May 2032 (Forty Fifth Issue - Private
- 2013 of ` 1,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 16 December 2023 Placement)VI
(Fiftieth Issue - Public Issue - Series 1A)VI
9.2573% Secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 42.69 48.01
8.66% Tax free secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable bonds - 213.89 of ` 15,00,000/- each with fifteen equal separately transferable redeemable
- 2013 of ` 1,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 16 December 2023 principal parts (STRPP) redeemable at par at the end of 6th year and in annual
(Fiftieth Issue - Public Issue - Series 1B)VI installments thereafter upto the end of 20th year respectively commencing
9.25% Secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 433.66 542.07 from 2 March 2018 and ending on 2 March 2032 (Forty Third Issue - Private
of ` 10,00,000/- each with five equal separately transferable redeemable Placement)III
principal parts (STRPP) redeemable at par at the end of 11th year and in 9.6713% Secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 42.81 48.18
annual installments thereafter upto the end of 15th year respectively of ` 15,00,000/- each with fifteen equal separately transferable redeemable
commencing from 04 May 2023 and ending on 04 May 2027 (Forty Fourth principal parts (STRPP) redeemable at par at the end of 6th year and in annual
Issue - Private Placement)VI installments thereafter upto the end of 20th year respectively commencing
8.48% Secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds - 50.01 from 23 December 2017 and ending on 23 December 2031 (Forty First Issue
of ` 10,00,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 1 May 2023 (Seventeenth - Private Placement)III
Issue - Private Placement)I 9.558% Secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 42.78 48.11
8.80% Secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds - 217.46 of ` 15,00,000/- each with fifteen equal separately transferable redeemable
of ` 10,00,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 4 April 2023 (Forty Ninth principal parts (STRPP) redeemable at par at the end of 6th year and in annual
Issue - Private Placement)VI installments thereafter upto the end of 20th year respectively commencing
from 29 July 2017 and ending on 29 July 2031 (Fortieth Issue - Private
8.49% Secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable fully 4,132.32 8,260.81
Placement)III
paid-up bonus debentures of ` 12.50 each redeemable at par in three annual
installments of ‘ 2.50, ` 5.00 and ` 5.00 at the end of 8th year, 9th year and 9.3896% Secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 59.82 67.28
10th year on 25 March 2023, 25 March 2024 and 25 March 2025 respectively of ` 15,00,000/- each with fifteen equal separately transferable redeemable
(Fifty Fourth Issue -Bonus Debentures)VIII principal parts (STRPP) redeemable at par at the end of 6th year and in annual
installments thereafter upto the end of 20th year respectively commencing
9.00% Secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 304.94 406.51
from 9 June 2017 and ending on 9 June 2031 (Thirty Ninth Issue - Private
of ` 10,00,000/- each with five equal separately transferable redeemable
Placement)III
principal parts (STRPP) redeemable at par at the end of 11th year and in
annual installments thereafter upto the end of 15th year respectively
commencing from 25 January 2023 and ending on 25 January 2027 (Forty
Second Issue - Private Placement)III
532 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 533
````` Crore ````` Crore
Particulars As at As at Particulars As at As at
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
9.17% Secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 37.33 42.65 7.68% Secured redeemable non-convertible taxable bonds of ` 10,00,000 514.38 514.26
of ` 15,00,000/- each with fifteen equal separately transferable redeemable each redeemable at par in two installments on 15 May 2025 and 15 November
principal parts (STRPP) redeemable at par at the end of 6th year and in annual 2025 with call option on 15 November 2022, 15 May 2023, 15 November
installments thereafter upto the end of 20th year respectively commencing 2023, 15 May 2024, 15 November 2024, 15 May 2025 (Eighteenth Issue -
from 22 March 2017 and ending on 22 March 2031 (Thirty Eighth Issue - Private Placement)X(ii)
Private Placement)III 9.50% Secured redeemable non-convertible taxable bonds of ` 10,00,000 - 309.48
8.8086% Secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 37.24 42.55 each redeemable at par in four installments on 29 May 2024, 29 November
of ` 15,00,000/- each with fifteen equal separately transferable redeemable 2024, 29 May 2025 & 29 November 2025 with call option on 29 November
principal parts (STRPP) redeemable at par at the end of 6th year and in annual 2023, 29 May 2024, 29 November 2024, 29 May 2025 (Twentieth Issue -
installments thereafter upto the end of 20th year respectively commencing Private Placement)X(i)
from 15 December 2016 and ending on 15 December 2030 (Thirty Sixth 9.15% Secured redeemable non-convertible taxable bonds of ` 10,00,000 120.21 240.42
Issue - Private Placement)III each redeemable at par in five installments on 25 March 2021, 25 March
8.785% Secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 59.57 68.07 2022, 25 March 2023, 25 March 2024 and 25 March 2025 (Fifteenth Issue -
of ` 15,00,000/- each with fifteen equal separately transferable redeemable Private Placement)X(iv)
principal parts (STRPP) redeemable at par at the end of 6th year and in annual 9.60% Secured redeemable non-convertible taxable bonds of ` 10,00,000 500.00 1,000.00
installments thereafter upto the end of 20th year respectively commencing each redeemable at par in five installments on 1 October 2020, 1 October
from 15 September 2016 and ending on 15 September 2030 (Thirty Fifth 2021, 1 October 2022, 1 October 2023 and 1 October 2024 (Fourteenth Issue
Issue - Private Placement)III - Private Placement)X(i)
8.71% Secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 74.43 85.04 Bonds issued by THDC India Ltd., a subsidiary of the Company
of ` 15,00,000/- each with fifteen equal separately transferable redeemable
7.60% Secured redeemable non-convertible bonds of ` 10,00,000 each 833.15 833.15
principal parts (STRPP) redeemable at par at the end of 6th year and in annual
redeemable on 14 September 2032 (Series VI)XI(iv)
installments thereafter upto the end of 20th year respectively commencing
7.39% Secured redeemable non-convertible bonds of ` 10,00,000 each 1,253.21 1,253.21
from 10 June 2016 and ending on 10 June 2030 (Thirty Fourth Issue - Private
redeemable on 25 August 2031 (Series V)XI(iv)
Placement)III
7.45% Secured redeemable non-convertible bonds of ` 10,00,000 each 760.87 760.87
8.8493% Secured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 44.70 52.14
redeemable on 20 January 2031 (Series IV)XI(iv)
of ` 15,00,000/- each with fifteen equal separately transferable redeemable
principal parts (STRPP) redeemable at par at the end of 6th year and in annual 7.19% Secured redeemable non-convertible bonds of ` 10,00,000 each 839.55 839.55
installments thereafter upto the end of 20th year respectively commencing redeemable on 23 July 2030 (Series III)XI(iii)
from 25 March 2016 and ending on 25 March 2030 (Thirty Second Issue - 8.75% Secured redeemable non-convertible bonds of ` 10,00,000 each 1,574.44 1,574.44
Private Placement)III redeemable on 5 September 2029 (Series II)XI(i)
Bonds issued by NEEPCO, a subsidiary of the Company 7.59% Secured redeemable non-convertible bonds of ` 10,00,000 each 622.45 622.45
7.55% Secured redeemable non-convertible taxable bonds of ` 10,00,000 511.44 511.32 redeemable on 3 October 2025 (Series I)XI(ii)
each redeemable at par in four installments on 10 December 2026, 10 June 34,811.03 42,029.72
2027, 10 December 2027 and 10 June 2028 with call option on 10 June 2025,
Bonds/debentures
10 December 2025, 10 June 2026, 10 December 2026, 10 June 2027 and 10
Unsecured
December 2027. (Twenty Second Issue - Private Placement)X(i)
6.87% Unsecured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 4,256.09 4,256.04
8.68% Secured redeemable non-convertible taxable bonds of ` 10,00,000 922.71 922.50
of ` 10,00,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 21 April 2036 (Seventy
each redeemable at par in five installments on 30 september 2026, 30
Fourth Issue - Private Placement)
September 2027, 30 September 2028, 30 September 2029 and 30 September
2030 (Sixteenth Issue - Private Placement)X(iii) 7.44% Unsecured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 510.85 510.77
of ` 10,00,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 15 April 2033 (Seventy
8.69% Secured redeemable non-convertible taxable bonds of ` 10,00,000 150.08 150.01
Ninth Issue - Private Placement)
each redeemable at par in two installments on 26 September 2026 and 26
September 2027 with call option on 26 September 2024, 26 March 2025, 26 7.44% Unsecured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 2,089.35 2,089.18
September 2025, 26 March 2026, 26 September 2026 and 26 March 2027 of ` 10,00,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 25 August 2032 (Seventy
(Twenty First Issue - Private Placement)X(i) Eighth Issue - Private Placement)
6.74% Unsecured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 1,197.19 1,197.02
of ` 10,00,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 14 April 2032 (Seventy
Sixth Issue - Private Placement)
534 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 535
````` Crore ````` Crore
Particulars As at As at Particulars As at As at
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
6.69% Unsecured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 3,110.09 3,109.83 Term loans
of ` 10,00,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 13 September 2031 From Banks
(Seventy Fifth Issue - Private Placement)
Secured
6.29% Unsecured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 1,042.06 1,042.00
Rupee term loansXII 16,057.48 18,083.41
of ` 10,00,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 11 April 2031 (Seventy
First Issue - Private Placement) Unsecured
6.43% Unsecured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 2,528.45 2,528.08 Foreign currency loans 22,436.54 19,828.94
of ` 10,00,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 27 January 2031 (Seventy Rupee term loans 79,150.11 66,547.30
Third Issue - Private Placement)
From Others
7.35% Unsecured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 3,210.75 -
Secured
of ` 1,00,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 17 April 2026 (Eightieth
Rupee term loansXII 10,650.08 10,025.83
Issue - Private Placement)
Unsecured
7.48% Unsecured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 1,503.15 -
of ` 1,00,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 21 March 2026 (Eighty First Foreign currency loans (guaranteed by GOI) 3,019.27 2,900.72
Issue - Private Placement) Other foreign currency loans 2,886.41 3,661.88
5.45% Unsecured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 4,100.57 4,100.21 Rupee term loans 631.18 601.11
of ` 10,00,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 15 October 2025 (Seventy
Rupee term loans from Government of India 291.27 291.25
Second Issue - Private Placement)
2,17,725.29 2,09,768.83
5.78% Unsecured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds 1,580.06 1,580.00
Less: Current maturities of
of ` 10,00,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 29 April 2024 (Seventy
Seventh Issue - Private Placement) Bonds - secured 6,009.73 6,851.40
6.55% Unsecured non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable taxable bonds - 4,648.83 Bonds - Unsecured 1,500.00 4,374.10
of ` 10,00,000/- each redeemable at par in full on 17 April 2023 (Seventy Foreign Currency Fixed Rate Notes 7,975.25 -
Issue - Private Placement)
Rupee term loans from banks - secured 1,048.73 1,519.62
Bonds issued by NEEPCO, a subsidiary of the Company
Foreign currency loans from banks - unsecured 416.74 425.05
7.14% Unsecured redeemable non-convertible taxable bonds of ` 10,00,000/- 200.27 200.27
Rupee term loans from banks - unsecured 6,644.31 4,557.68
each redeemable at par in four installments on 22 September 2028, 23 March
2029, 24 September 2029 & 22 March 2030 with call option on 24 March Rupee term loans from others - secured 238.75 412.21
2026, 24 September 2026, 24 march 2027, 24 September 2027, 24 March Foreign currency loans from other - unsecured (guaranteed by GOI) 336.19 325.75
2028(Twenty Third Issue-Private Placement)
Other foreign currency loans from others - unsecured 549.74 565.28
Bonds issued by THDC, a subsidiary of the Company
Rupee term loans from others - unsecured - 16.57
7.93% Unsecured redeemable non-convertible bonds of ` 1,00,000/- each 791.69 -
Interest accrued but not due on secured borrowings 1,195.91 1,163.69
redeemable at par in full on 16 January 2034 (Series IX)
Interest accrued but not due on unsecured borrowings 1,594.97 1,673.91
7.76% Unsecured redeemable non-convertible bonds of ` 1,00,000/- each 795.45 -
redeemable at par in full on 13 September 2033 (Series VIII) Total 1,90,214.97 1,87,883.57
7.88% Unsecured redeemable non-convertible bonds of `10,00,000/- each 612.31 612.31
a) Details of terms of repayment and rate of interest
redeemable at par in full on 27 December 2032 (Series VII)
i) Secured rupee term loan from banks and financial institutions carry floating rate of interest linked to SBI base
62,339.36 67,904.26
rate or Base rate of respective lender or three year AAA bond yield rate plus agreed margin or three year AAA
Foreign currency notes
bond yield rate plus agreed margin with reset after three years or one month/three month MCLR plus spread or
Unsecured
three month/one year MCLR plus spread or 3 month T-bill rate plus spread or prevalent rate notified by the
4.500 % Fixed rate notes due for repayment on 19 March 2028 3,353.82 3,302.14 lender for category ‘A’ public sector undertakings or fixed interest rate of 7.95%/9.75% p.a. or RBI’s repo rate
2.750 % Fixed rate notes due for repayment on 1 February 2027 4,590.69 4,554.79 plus applicable margin or floating interest rates ranging from 7.75% to 8.35%. These loans are repayable in
installments as per the terms of the respective loan agreements. The repayment period extends from a period
4.250 % Fixed rate notes due for repayment on 26 February 2026 4,210.06 4,145.67
of five to twenty years after 6 months from the date of COD or from the date specified in the loan agreements.
4.375 % Fixed rate notes due for repayment on 26 November 2024 4,261.27 4,199.85
3.750 % Fixed rate notes due for repayment on 3 April 2024 3,847.75 3,721.68
20,263.59 19,924.13
536 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 537
ii) Unsecured foreign currency loans (guaranteed by GOI) - Others include loans carrying fixed rate of interest III Secured by (I) English mortgage, on first pari-passu charge basis, of the office premises of the Company at Mumbai
ranging from 0.85% p.a. to 3.46% p.a. and are repayable in 7 to 18 semi annual installments in respect of and (II) Equitable mortgage of the immovable properties, on first pari-passu charge basis, pertaining to Sipat Super
NEEPCO. Thermal Power Project by extension of charge already created.
Unsecured foreign currency loans (guaranteed by GOI) - Others carry fixed rate of interest ranging from 1.80% IV Secured by Equitable mortgage, on pari-passu charge basis, of the immovable properties pertaining to Barh Super
p.a. to 2.30% p.a. and are repayable in 5 to 14 semi annual installments. Thermal Power Project.
Unsecured foreign currency loans (guaranteed by GOI) - Others also include loans carrying interest rate linked V Secured by Equitable mortgage, on pari-passu charge basis, of the immovable properties pertaining to Vindhyachal
to SOFR plus variable spread and are repayable in 23 years on half yearly instalment from 15 November 2017 to Super Thermal Power Station.
15 May 2040.
VI Secured by (I) English mortgage, on first pari-passu charge basis, of the office premises of the Company at Mumbai
iii) Unsecured foreign currency loans – Banks include loans of ````` 44.82 crore (31 March 2023: ` 67.13 crore) which and (II) Equitable mortgage of the immovable properties, on first pari-passu charge basis, pertaining to National
carry fixed rate of interest of 1.88% and loans of ````` 22,391.72 crore (31 March 2023: ` 19,761.81 crore) which Capital Power Station (including thermal & gas) by extension of charge already created.
carry floating rate of interest linked to 6M USD SOFR/6M EURIBOR/3M TONA/6M TONA . These loans are repayable
VII Secured by English mortgage of the immovable properties pertaining to Solapur Super Thermal Power Project on
in 1 to 23 semi annual/annual installments as of 31 March 2024, commencing after moratorium period if any, as
first charge basis.
per the terms of the respective loan agreements.
VIII Secured by Equitable mortgage of the immovable properties pertaining to Barh Super Thermal Power Project on
iv) Unsecured foreign currency loans – Others include loans of ````` 1,155.55 crore (31 March 2023: ` 1,568.31 crore)
first charge basis.
which carry fixed rate of interest ranging from 1.88% p.a. to 4.13% p.a and loans of ````` 1,730.86 crore (31 March
2023: ` 2,093.57 crore) which carry floating rate of interest linked to 3M TONA/6M TONA . These loans are IX Secured by English mortgage, on pari-passu charge basis, of the immovable properties pertaining to Solapur Super
repayable in 03 to 23 semi annual instalments as of 31 March 2024, commencing after moratorium period if Thermal Power Project.
any, as per the terms of the respective loan agreements.
X (i) Secured by way of mortgage of assets attached to the earth as well as other movable assets of the Kameng
v) Unsecured rupee term loans from banks and others carry interest rate ranging from 7.75% p.a. to 8.30% p.a. Hydro Electric Project, Arunachal Pradesh and the landed property in the District of Mehsana, Gujarat.
with monthly rests. These loans are repayable in half-yearly/yearly instalments as per the terms of the respective
(ii) Secured by way of mortgage of the assets attached to the earth as well as other movable assets of the Pare
loan agreements. The repayment period extends from a period of 5 to 15 years after a moratorium period of 3
Hydro Electric Project, Arunachal Pradesh and the landed property in the District of Mehsana, Gujarat.
to 6 years.
(iii) Secured by way of mortgage of the assets attached to the earth as well as other movable assets of the Tuirial
vi) Unsecured rupee term loans include ````` 631.18 crore (31 March 2023: ` 584.27 crore) from Government of
Hydro Electric Project in Mizoram, Kopili Hydro Electric Project in Assam and the landed property in the District
Jharkhand to M/s Patratu Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Ltd., a Subsidiary of the parent company, which carry interest
of Mehsana, Gujarat.
at the rate of 10% p.a. until the date of investment approval and afterwards equivalent to weighted average
(iv) Secured by way of mortgage of the assets of the Agartala Gas Turbine Project (original open-cycle plant) in
cost of borrowing subject to ceiling of 10% per annum. The said loan is being utilised towards raising share
Tripura, assets except the gas turbines & steam turbines in the Assam Gas Based Project, Assam, assets except
application money from JBVNL as prescribed in JVA/SJVA. During the year, a sum of Nil (31 March 2023:
plant & machinery in the generating station in the Ranganadi Hydro Electric Project, Arunachal Pradesh and the
` 150.68 crore) has been utilised for rasing share application money from JBVNL.
landed property in the District of Mehsana, Gujarat.
vii) Unsecured rupee term loans from Government of India carry interest rate of 1% p.a. This loan is repayable in
(v) Secured by way of mortgage of the steam turbines of the Assam Gas Based Power Plant, Assam and the landed
yearly installments as per the terms of the loan agreement. The repayment period is 15 years starting from 30
property in the District of Mehsana, Gujarat.
January 2018.
(vi) Secured by way of mortgage of all the plant and machinery in the generating station of the Ranganadi Hydro
viii) Secured rupee term loans from banks and others carry interest rate ranging from 7.95% p.a. to 8.50% p.a. with
Electric Project, Arunachal Pradesh and the landed property in the District of Mehsana, Gujarat.
monthly rests. These loans are repayable in quarterly instalments as per the terms of the respective loan
agreements. The repayment period extends upto a period of 15 years after a moratorium period of 6 months to (vii)Secured by way of mortgage of the gas turbines of the Assam Gas Based Power Project, Assam and the landed
5 years. property in the District of Mehsana, Gujarat.
b) There has been no default in repayment of any of the loans or interest thereon as at the end of the year. XI (i) Secured by first charge on paripassu basis on movable assets of Tehri HPP Stage-I including book debts.
c) The group has used the borrowings from banks and financial institutions for the purposes for which it were taken. (ii) Secured by first charge on paripassu basis on movable assets of Tehri HPP Stage-I.
d) M/s Patratu Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Limited, a subsidiary of the company has created a subservient charge on the (iii) Secured by first charge on paripassu basis on movable assets of Koteshwar HEP & Wind Power Projects of Patan
movable assets of the company in favour of Axis Bank Limited for obtaining a performance bank guarantee of & Dwarka.
````` 237.60 crore for Banardih coalmine.
(iv) Secured by first charge on paripassu basis on the movable CWIP and future movable assets of pump storage
Details of securities plant located at Tehri.
I Secured by (I) English mortgage, on first pari-passu charge basis, of the office premises of the Company at Mumbai XII (i) Secured by a first priority charge on all assets, present & future, movable & immovable and land of 975.05 acres
and (II) Equitable mortgage, by way of first charge, by deposit of title deeds of the immovable properties pertaining and second charge on all inventories and receivables, in respect of loan from consortium led by SBI for
to National Capital Power Station (including thermal & gas) Muzzafarpur Thermal Power Station (Kanti Bijlee Utpadan Nigam Ltd., erstwhile Subsidiary of the Company)
expansion project. The security will rank pari-pasu with all term lenders of the project. The charge has been
II Secured by Equitable mortgage of the immovable properties pertaining to Vindhyachal Super Thermal Power Station
created in favor of SBI Cap Trustee Co. Ltd. and Canara Bank. Legal mortgage of land in favour of security trustee
on first charge basis.
has been executed for 877.18 acres out of 975.05 acres of land. During the year, the loan has been repaid in full.
538 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 539
(ii) Secured by equitable mortgage/ hypothecation of all present and future fixed and movable assets of Nabinagar 29. Non-current liabilities- Other financial liabilities
TPP (4*250) MW of Bhartiya Rail Bijlee Company Ltd., a subsidiary company, as first charge, ranking pari passu. ````` Crore
The term loan is secured on pari passu basis on the project assets (Units - I to IV).
Particulars As at As at
(iii) Secured by all existing and future moveable assets of Patratu Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Ltd, a subsidiary company, 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
including equipment, machinery and other current assets, book debts, receivables and all other moveables.
Payable for capital expenditure
The Loan is further secured by first charge by way of English Mortgage on all immovable properties.
- micro and small enterprises 4.55 4.16
(iv) Secured by a first pari passu charge on entire current assets and fixed assets of Nabinagar Thermal Power
Station (Nabinagar Power Generating Company Limited, erstwhile subsidiary of the Company). - other than micro and small enterprises 329.26 417.04
Secured by a first pari passu charge on all assets, present and future, movable and immovable through a deed Deposits from contractors and others 72.49 367.11
of hypothecation and simple mortgage of 2500 acres of land of Nabinagar Thermal Power Station (Nabinagar
Contractual Obligations 133.92 86.52
Power Generating Company Limited, erstwhile subsidiary of the Company).
Others 0.10 0.10
(v) Secured by pari passu charge over assets of the Kameng Hydro Electric Power Project (600 MW) situated at
Arunachal Pradesh of NEEPCO, a subsidiary company. Total 540.32 874.93
(vi) Secured by first charge on pari passu basis on assets of Tehri stage-I i.e. dam, power house civil construction, a) Contractual obligations represent security deposit and retention money deducted from vendors at present value
power house electrical & mechanical equipments not covered under other borrowings and project township of and includes Performance Guarantee Deposit (PGD) deducted by the Company from the Solar Power Developers
Tehri dam and HPP together with all rights and interest appertaining there to, of THDC India Ltd., a subsidiary (SPD) in line with the MNRE Guidelines are earmarked for the purpose specified therein. The PGD shall be refunded
company. to SPDs without interest within three months after expiry of the 25 Year term of PPA subject to satisfactory
performance of the project. In case the developer winds up his project or terminates the PPA prior to the completion
(vii)Secured against first charge on pari passu basis on assets of Tehri PSP of THDC India Ltd., a subsidiary company.
of the 25 Year term of PPA, the PGD shall be forfeited. Further the PGD may also be used in Payment Security
(viii) Secured against first charge on pari passu basis on movable fixed assets (including plant & machinery and
Mechanism as specified in the guidelines.
cwip) both existing & future of Kasargod Solar Power Plant, Khurja STPP and Amelia coal mine of THDC India
Ltd., a subsidiary company. b) Amounts payable to related parties are disclosed in Note 61.
(ix) Secured against first charge on pari-passu basis on all existing and future movable and immovable assets excluding
30. Non-current liabilities - Provisions
current assets pertaining to six projects viz, Bhainsara 320MW, Chattargarh 150MW, GUVNL 200MW, GUVNL
150MW, SECI Hybrid Tr-IV-350MW & Shajapur U-2 of NTPC Renewable Energy Limited, subsidiary of NTPC ````` Crore
Green Energy Ltd., a subsidiary company. Particulars As at As at
(x) Secured by first charge over the movable fixed assets (including assets attached to the earth) of the Tripura Gas 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
based Power Station situated in the Sepahijala District of Tripura). Provision for
(xi) Secured by hypothecation of fixed assets of the property on first pari passu charge basis at Pare Hydro Power Employee benefits 966.61 966.02
Station, Arunachal Pradesh and Plant & Machinery at the Rangandi HPS (405 MW) and Gas Turbines of the
Mine Closure 494.01 323.80
Assam Gas based Power station (291 MW)
Stripping Activity Adjustments 603.60 611.88
(xii)Secured by first ranking pari passu charge / mortgage on the assets (moveable and immovable, tangible and
intangible), entire cash flows, Current Assets, receivables, book debts, goodwill and revenues, all rights, title‘s, Others 19.81 18.22
interests, benefits, claims and demand (including without limitation the Clearances, Insurance Contracts, proceeds
Total 2,084.03 1,919.92
under the Insurance Contracts, performance bonds, contractors’ guarantees, bank guarantees, advance payment
guarantees and any letter of credit provided by any person) and all the bank accounts of Ratnagiri Gas Power a) Disclosures as per Ind AS 19 ‘Employee benefits’ are provided in Note 58.
Plant Limited (RGPPL), a subsidiary company.
b) Disclosures required by Ind AS 37 ‘Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets’ are provided in Note 64.
XIII Security cover mentioned at Sl. No. I to XII is above 100% of the secured debt outstanding.
28. Non-current financial liabilities - Lease liabilities
````` Crore
Particulars As at As at
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Lease liabilities 2,090.68 1,820.79
Less: current maturities of lease liabilities 252.85 216.75
Total 1,837.83 1,604.04
a) The lease liabilities are repayable in installments as per the terms of the respective lease agreements generally over
a period of more than 1 year and upto 99 years.
540 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 541
31. Non-current liabilities - Deferred tax liabilities (net) As at 31 March 2023 ` Crore
````` Crore Particulars As at Recognised Recognised Others As at
Particulars As at As at 1 April in statement of in OCI 31 March
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 2022 profit and loss 2023
Deferred tax liability Deferred tax liability
Difference in book depreciation and 30,288.21 4,289.52 - (144.50) 34,433.23
Difference in book depreciation and tax depreciation 39,810.04 34,433.23
tax depreciation
Less:Deferred tax assets
Less:Deferred tax assets
Provisions 1,269.19 1,164.77
Provisions 968.99 195.78 - - 1,164.77
Statutory dues 327.75 259.00
Statutory dues 294.97 (35.97) - - 259.00
Leave encashment 598.08 554.58
Leave encashment 520.86 33.72 - - 554.58
Unabsorbed depreciation 1,173.61 738.96
Unabsorbed depreciation 1,273.21 (534.25) - - 738.96
MAT credit entitlement 20,696.72 19,016.68
MAT credit entitlement 16,263.41 2,753.27 - - 19,016.68
Others 512.86 9.24
Others 15.10 (5.86) - - 9.24
Total 15,231.83 12,690.00
Deferred tax liability (net) 10,951.67 1,882.83 - (144.50) 12,690.00
a) Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities have been offset to the extent they relate to the same governing laws.
b) The Group has been recognising MAT credit available as the same is likely to give future economic benefits in the 32. Other non-current liabilities
form of availability of set off against future income tax liability. ````` Crore
c) Disclosures as per Ind AS 12 ‘Income Taxes’ are provided in Note 57. Particulars As at As at
d) Others mainly include deferred tax assets on account of lease liabilities. 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Government grants 2,810.14 2,611.95
Movement in deferred tax balances
a) Government grants include grant received in advance amounting to ````` 15.00 crore (31 March 2023: ` 8.47 crore) for
As at 31 March 2024 ````` Crore
which attached conditions are to be fulfilled / works to be completed relating to various solar power plants. This
Particulars As at Recognised Recognised Others As at amount will be recognized as revenue corresponding to the depreciation charge in future years on completion of
1 April in statement of in OCI 31 March related projects.
2023 profit and loss 2024
b) Government grants also include:
Deferred tax liability
(i) Grant received from Govt. of Uttar Pradesh towards irrigation sector by THDC India Ltd. (a subsidiary of the
Difference in book depreciation and 34,433.23 5,584.15 - (207.34) 39,810.04 Company) amounting to ````` 546.64 crore (31 March 2023: ` 577.49 crore). This amount will be recognized as
tax depreciation revenue corresponding to the depreciation charge in future years.
Less:Deferred tax assets (ii) Grant received from Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region by NEEPCO (a subsidiary of the Company)
amounting to ````` 196.27 crore (31 March 2023: ` 212.09 crore). As per the Investment Approval sanctioned vide
Provisions 1,164.77 105.92 - (1.50) 1,269.19
the Ministry of Power’s letter no.7/7/2009-H-I dated 14 January 2011, an amount of ` 300.00 crores has been
Statutory dues 259.00 68.75 - - 327.75 sanctioned by the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (MDONER) as a part of the approved
funding pattern for the Tuirial Hydro Electric Project, Mizoram. The grant is being amortised during normative
Leave encashment 554.58 43.50 - - 598.08
useful life of the project since its commissioning.
Unabsorbed depreciation 738.96 434.65 - - 1,173.61
(iii) Grant received by NGEL (a subsidiary of the Company) amounting to ````` 52.50 crore (31 March 2023: ` 87.50
MAT credit entitlement 19,016.68 1,680.04 - - 20,696.72 crore) relating to various solar power plants and ````` 539.52 crore (31 March 2023: ` 359.76 crore) in respect of
Others 9.24 503.62 - - 512.86 Khavda Solar Park of its subsidiary NTPC Renewable Energy Limited for which works are to be completed. These
amounts will be recognised as revenue corresponding to the depreciation charge in future years after the
Deferred tax liability (net) 12,690.00 2,747.67 - (205.84) 15,231.83
completion of related projects.
(iv) Unamortised grant also includes amount ````` 27.00 crore (31 March 2023: ` 32.64 crore) received/ receivable
from Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) for supply of e-Buses by NVVN (a subsidiary of the
Company). This amount will be recognised as revenue corresponding to depreciation charge in future years.
542 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 543
(v) Balance Government grants mainly represent unamortised portion of grant received. This includes ````` 1,364.18 (a) Current Borrowings:- The outstanding cash credit from banks carry floating interest rate linked to MCLR plus spread
crore (31 March 2023: ` 1,286.97 crore) received from Solar Energy Corporation of India under MNRE Scheme or 91 Days T-Bill plus spread or Repo rate plus spread, while short term working capital loans from banks carry fixed
for setting up Solar PV power projects. This amount will be recognized as revenue corresponding to the interest rate ranging between 7.04% to 7.30% p.a. (31 March 2023: 6.98% p.a. to 7.38% p.a.) repayable on demand,
depreciation charge in future years. in line with respective arrangements with the lender banks. Commercial paper carry discounted interest of 7.59%
p.a.(31 March 2023: 5.20 % p.a.to 7.30 % p.a.).
Refer Note 37 w.r.t. current portion of Government grants.
(b) Secured cash credit/Short term working capital loan includes:
33. Current financial liabilities -Borrowings (i) Secured against hypothecation of the stocks of stores and spares and book debt, both present and future, of
````` Crore the NEEPCO, a subsidiary of the Company.
Particulars As at As at (ii) Secured against secured by way of second charge on block of assets of Tehri Stage-1 and Koteshwar HEP including
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 machinery spares, tools & accessories, fuel stock, spares & material at project site and by way of exclusive
charge on debtors of Patan Wind Power Project,Dev Bhoomi dwarka wind power project, Dhukuwan project
Current borrowings
and Solar power plant Kerala, trade receivables of Koteshwar HEP of THDC India Ltd., a subsidiary of the Company.
Bills discounted - Secured 1,974.49 1,287.19
(iii) Secured by a first pari passu charge on entire current assets (both present and future) and second pari passu
Loans repayable on demand
charge on fixed assets of the of Bhartiya Rail Bijlee Company Limited, a subsidiary of the Company.
From banks
(iv) Secured by a first hypothecation charge on stores/spares, book debts and entire current assets both present
Secured
and future of the of NTPC Vidhyut Vyapar Nigam Limited, a subsidiary of the Company.
Cash Credit /Short term working capital loan 2,052.02 1,189.11
(c) Borrowings under Commercial paper are net of unamortised discount as at 31 March 2024 amounting to ````` 120.62
Unsecured crore (31 March 2023: ` 40.27 crore)
Cash Credit /Short term working capital loan 1,200.00 175.11
(d) Details in respect of rate of interest and terms of repayment of current maturities of secured and unsecured non-
Other Loans current borrowings indicated above are disclosed in Note 27.
Unsecured (e) The secured current borrowings relating to bills discounted are secured against the book debts, present and future.
Short term working capital loan from Bank 11,500.00 9,550.00 Refer note 15 (c) for detailed disclosure.
Commercial paper 3,379.38 1,959.73 (f) There has been no default in repayment of any of the loans or interest thereon as at the end of the year.
20,105.89 14,161.14
34. Current financial liabilities - Lease liabilities
Current maturities of non-current borrowings
````` Crore
Bonds - secured 6,009.73 6,851.40
Particulars As at As at
Bonds - Unsecured 1,500.00 4,374.10
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Foreign currency notes - unsecured 7,975.25 -
Current maturities of lease liabilities 252.85 216.75
From Banks
a) Refer Note 28 for details in respect of non-current lease labilities.
Secured
Rupee term loans 1,048.73 1,519.62
35. Current financial liabilities - Trade payables
Unsecured
````` Crore
Foreign currency loans 416.74 425.05
Particulars As at As at
Rupee term loans 6,644.31 4,557.68
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
From Others
Trade payables for goods and services
Secured
Total outstanding dues of
Rupee term loans 238.75 412.21
- micro and small enterprises 579.97 308.92
Unsecured
- creditors other than micro and small enterprises 10,757.98 11,047.24
Foreign currency loans (guaranteed by GOI) 336.19 325.75
Total 11,337.95 11,356.16
Other foreign currency loans 549.74 565.28
Rupee term loans - 16.57 (a) Amounts payable to related parties are disclosed in Note 61.
24,719.44 19,047.66
Total 44,825.33 33,208.80
544 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 545
(b) Trade payables ageing schedule 36. Current liabilities - Other financial liabilities (Contd.)
As at 31 March 2024 ````` Crore ````` Crore
Particulars Unbilled Not Due Outstanding for following periods from Total Particulars As at As at
Dues due date of payment 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Less than 1-2 2-3 More than
Payable to employees 1,172.33 1,212.45
1 year years years 3 years
Retention on account of encashment of bank guarantee (solar) 288.74 284.78
(i) MSME 387.39 4.33 188.25 - - - 579.97
Payable to Solar Payment Security account 367.85 344.62
(ii) Others 2,660.82 91.59 4,753.61 1,235.08 219.58 1,645.16 10,605.84
(iii) Disputed dues – MSME - - - - - - - Dividend Payable 70.81 -
(iv) Disputed dues – Others - - - - - 152.14 152.14 Others 662.11 522.74
Total 3,048.21 95.92 4,941.86 1,235.08 219.58 1,797.30 11,337.95
Total 32,944.74 30,782.44
As at 31 March 2023 ` Crore a) Unpaid dividends, matured deposits, bonds and interest include the amounts which have either not been claimed
Particulars Unbilled Not Due Outstanding for following periods from Total by the investors/holders of the equity shares/bonds/fixed deposits or are on hold pending legal formalities etc. Out
Dues due date of payment of the above, the amount required to be transferred to the Investor Education and Protection Fund (IEPF) has been
Less than 1-2 2-3 More than transferred.
1 year years years 3 years
b) Other payables - Others’ mainly includes ````` 41.52 crore (31 March 2023: ` 63.68 crore) towards the implementation
(i) MSME 187.94 35.90 85.01 0.01 - 0.06 308.92 of Deen Dayal Upadhyay Gram Jyoti Yojana (DDUGJY) Scheme of the GOI being carried out by the Company. The
(ii) Others 2,493.41 339.35 5,607.26 420.36 218.72 1,782.02 10,861.12 funds for the implementation of these schemes are provided by the agencies nominated by the GOI in this regard.
‘Other payables - Others’ also include ````` 293.29 crore (31 March 2023: ` 251.53 crore) in respect of an amount
(iii) Disputed dues – MSME - - - - - - -
payable under a contract which was under dispute which has been since settled and balance towards amount
(iv) Disputed dues – Others - - - - - 186.12 186.12
payable to hospitals, etc. Further, ‘Other payables - Others’ also include provision for CSR Reserve in respect of two
Total 2,681.35 375.25 5,692.27 420.37 218.72 1,968.20 11,356.16 subsidiaries amounting to ````` 13.79 crore (31 March 2023 - ` Nil)
c) The Company had obtained exemption from the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA), GOI in respect of applicability
36. Current liabilities - Other financial liabilities
of Section 58A from the erstwhile Companies Act, 1956 in respect of deposits held from the dependants of employees
````` Crore who die or suffer permanent total disability under the ‘Employees Rehabilitation Scheme’ (said amount is included
Particulars As at As at in “Other payables - Others”). Consequent upon enactment of the Companies Act, 2013, the Company has written
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 to the MCA for clarification on continuation of above exemption granted earlier, which is still awaited. Based on an
expert opinion, the amount accepted under the Scheme is not considered as a deposit under the Companies Act,
Interest accrued but not due on
2013.
Secured current borrowings 0.40 0.23
d) Retention on account of encashment of bank guarantee (solar) represents amounts retained by M/s NVVN Ltd., a
Unsecured current borrowings 63.49 36.84 wholly owned subsidiary, pursuant to directions received from the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy vide
letter ref. no. 29/5/2010-11/JNNSM(ST) dated 29 June 2012 and clarifications thereafter. The company has utilised
Secured non current borrowings 1,195.91 1,163.69
````` 288.74 crore (31 March 2023 : ` 284.74 crore) from “Retention on account of encashment of bank guarantee
Unsecured non current borrowings 1,594.97 1,673.91 (solar)” for non-payment of dues by its customers under Jawahar Lal Nehru National Solar Mission, Phase-I (JNNSM-
I).
Unpaid dividends 17.74 19.07
e) Contractual obligation includes security deposit and retention money deducted from vendors.
Unpaid matured deposits and interest accrued thereon 0.19 0.19
Unpaid matured bonds and interest accrued thereon 12.69 9.62 f) Amounts payable to related parties are disclosed in Note 61.
Book overdraft 36.95 307.57 g) Solar Payment Security Account was created by MNRE, Government of India vide OM No. 29/5/2010-11/JNNSM(ST)
dated 30 June 2011 as Gross Budgetary Support (GBS) by Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE), Government
Payable to customers 1,077.05 1,289.39
of India for ensuring timely payment to Solar Power Developers (SPDs) in the event of default by State Utilities/
Payable for capital expenditure Discoms. This fund is to be recouped after receipt of payment from State Utilities/Discoms against these bills. This
fund was incorporated in the books of accounts of NVVN with effect from 01 Jan 2019 for better monitoring and
- micro and small enterprises 213.24 140.46
control of the fund. The funds not withdrawn are invested in Term deposits and balance amount is kept in Current
- other than micro and small enterprises 22,411.46 20,643.14 account (refer Note 16).
Other payables
Deposits from contractors and others 1,106.09 533.76
Contractual Obligations 2,652.72 2,599.98
546 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 547
37. Current liabilities - Other current liabilities 39. Current liabilities - Current tax liabilities (net)
````` Crore ````` Crore
Particulars As at As at Particulars As at As at
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Advances from customers and others 686.25 624.89 Current Tax 49.34 4,487.20
Government Grants 111.44 95.30 Less: Advance tax paid 46.39 4,400.73
Other payables Total 2.95 86.47
Statutory dues 725.28 842.29
40. Deferred revenue
Others 457.22 391.80
````` Crore
Total 1,980.19 1,954.28
Particulars As at As at
(a) Advance received for the DDUGJY of ````` 306.93 crore (31 March 2023: ` 282.22 crore) is included in ‘Advance from 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
customers and others’. Refer Note 35 (b). Tax deducted at source on the interest is included in ‘Advance tax and tax
On account of
deducted at source’ - Note 12.
Advance against depreciation 182.32 189.92
(b) Refer Note 32 w.r.t. accounting of Government grants.
Income from foreign currency fluctuation 2,427.79 2,712.87
(c) Others include an amount ````` 331.79 crore (31 March 2023: ` 311.07 crore) payable to Government of Jharkhand on
disposal of the assets held for sale. These assets were initially transferred to the subsidiary by the Scheme notified Deferred fair valuation gain 15.18 47.69
by the Government of Jharkhand (GoJ) vide notification No. 888 dated 1 April 2016 of Patratu Thermal Power
Others 25.71 -
Station, for generation of the electricity under power supply arrangement to Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited
Total 2,651.00 2,950.48
(JBVNL), an enterprise of Government of Jharkhand (GoJ). However due to heavy cost of generation, JBVNL / GoJ
proposed to shut down the plant and scrap all the existing units and accordingly plant has been shut down on 24 Jan a) Advance against depreciation (AAD) was an element of tariff provided under the Tariff Regulations for 2001-04 and
2017. It has been further agreed that consideration of these assets shall be the amount realised from sale of scrap, 2004-09 to facilitate debt servicing by the generators since it was considered that depreciation recovered in the
net of cost. tariff considering a useful life of 25 years is not adequate for debt servicing. Though this amount is not repayable to
The proceeds realised during the year from dismantling of the existing units, current assets & Scrap less administrative the beneficiaries, keeping in view the matching principle, and in line with the opinion of the Expert Advisory
expenses towards the sale, land lease and any other incidental expenses has been credited to GoJ in lieu of the Committee (EAC) of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI), this was treated as deferred revenue to
Specified Assets Transfer consideration as per the agreement. The corresponding provisional liability on account of the extent depreciation chargeable in the accounts is considered to be higher than the depreciation recoverable in
these assets has been adjusted and disclosed above. tariff in future years. Since AAD is in the nature of deferred revenue and does not constitute a liability, it has been
disclosed in this note separately from equity and liabilities.
38. Current liabilities - Provisions b) Foreign exchange rate variation (FERV) on foreign currency loans and interest thereon is recoverable from/payable
````` Crore to the customers in line with the Tariff Regulations. Keeping in view the opinion of the EAC of ICAI, the Company is
recognizing deferred foreign currency fluctuation asset by corresponding credit to deferred income from foreign
Particulars As at As at
currency fluctuation in respect of the FERV on foreign currency loans adjusted in the cost of property, plant and
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
equipment, which is recoverable from the customers in future years as provided in material accounting policy no.
Provision for C.13 (Note 1). This amount will be recognized as revenue corresponding to the depreciation charge in future years.
The amount does not constitute a liability to be discharged in future periods and hence, it has been disclosed
Employee benefits 2,205.45 2,080.24
separately from equity and liabilities.
Obligations incidental to land acquisition 1,857.23 2,456.35
c) Deferred revenue-Others represents amount recovered from EPC contractor for one of the solar projects in case of
Tariff adjustment 801.14 817.61 NTPC Green Energy Limited,which will be adjusted against future recurring annual expenditure.
Arbitration awards 2,064.12 2,687.95
41. Regulatory deferral account credit balances
Others 132.39 173.08
````` Crore
Total 7,060.33 8,215.23
Particulars As at As at
a) Disclosures required by Ind AS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’ are provided in Note 58. 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
b) Disclosures required by Ind AS 37 ‘Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets’ are provided in Note 64. Deferred liability for MAT credit 1,019.04 604.61
c) Provision for others mainly comprise ````` 99.40 crore (31 March 2023: ` 90.79 crore) towards cost of unfinished Exchange differences 280.79 -
minimum work programme demanded by the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas (MoP&NG) including interest
1,299.83 604.61
thereon in relation to Block AA-ONN-2003/2 (Refer Note 66) and ````` 5.48 crore (31 March 2023: ` 6.18 crore) towards
provision for shortage in property, plant and equipment on physical verification pending investigation. Regulatory deferral account balances have been accounted in line with material accounting policy no. C.5. Refer Note 23
for Regulatory deferral account debit balances. Refer Note 72 for detailed disclosures.
548 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 549
42. Revenue from operations b) Capacity charges for the year ended 31 March 2024 include ````` 1,951.75 crore (31 March 2023: ` 1,813.68 crore)
````` Crore pertaining to earlier years on account of impact of CERC orders and other adjustments. Energy and other charges for
the year ended 31 March 2024 include ````` 329.59 crore (31 March 2023: ` 3,279.26 crore) pertaining to earlier years
Particulars For the year For the year
on account of revision of energy charges due to grade slippages and other adjustments. Other adjustments in PY
ended ended
include an amount of ` 3,097.04 crore on account of adjustment of ‘Net movement in regulatory deferral account
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
balances (net of taxes)’ relating to reimbursement of ash transportation cost for the period from 1 April 2019 to 31
Energy sales 1,67,227.01 1,65,695.01 March 2022 pursuant to Order of CERC dated 28 October 2022.
Sale of energy through trading 9,212.95 8,141.27 c) Sales for the year ended 31 March 2024 include ````` Nil (31 March 2023: ` 262.97 crore) on account of income tax
Consultancy, project management and supervision fee 169.46 119.05 recoverable from the beneficiaries as per Regulations, 2004. Sales for the year ended 31 March 2024 include
````` 141.07 crore (31 March 2023: ` 102.03 crore) on account of deferred tax materialized which is recoverable from
Lease rentals on assets on operating lease 19.58 19.58
beneficiaries as per Regulations, 2019.
Commission - energy trading business 12.71 9.20
d) Energy sales include electricity duty amounting to ````` 1,672.32 crore (31 March 2023: ` 1,516.71 crore).
1,76,641.71 1,73,984.11
e) Revenue from operations for the year ended 31 March 2024 include ````` 9,295.80 crore (31 March 2023: ` 8,183.92
Sale of fly ash/ash products 495.11 399.37 crore) on account of sale of energy through trading. Sale of energy through trading includes export sales amounting
to ````` 1,376.86 crore (31 March 2023: ` 1,275.80 crore) to Nepal and Bangladesh by M/s NVVN Ltd., a subsidiary of
Less: Transferred to fly ash utilisation reserve fund 495.11 399.37
the Company.
- -
f) Other operating revenue includes ````` 77.90 crore (31 March 2023: ` 92.04 crore) towards energy internally consumed,
Other operating revenues valued at variable cost of generation and the corresponding amount is included in power charges in Note 48.
Interest from beneficiaries 1,569.36 1,676.95 g) CERC Regulations provides that where after the truing-up, the tariff recovered is less/more than the tariff approved
Energy internally consumed 77.90 92.04 by the Commission, the generating Company shall recover from /pay to the beneficiaries the under/over recovered
amount along-with simple interest. Based on the above, the interest recoverable from the beneficiaries amounting
Interest income on assets under finance lease 23.81 32.53
to ````` 1,569.35 crore (31 March 2023: ` 1,676.95 crore) has been accounted as ‘Interest from beneficiaries’. Further,
Recognised from government grants 111.26 131.90 the amount payable to the beneficiaries has been accounted as ‘Interest to beneficiaries’ in Note 48.
Provision written back h) Provision written back-others includes write back of provision towards water conservation fund at few projects of
the Company amounting to Nil (31 March 2023: ` 242.98 crore), which was no longer required.
Tariff adjustments 16.47 -
i) In respect of Ratnagiri Gas & Power Private Limited (RGPPL), one of the subsidiaries, revenue amounting ` 5,188.83
Others 0.01 242.98
crore (31 March 2023 ` 3,308.75 crore) (including Late Payment Surcharge) has not been recognized due to uncertainty
Income form Trading of ESCerts 15.12 10.19 in collection as a prudent measure. Further, during the year RGPPL has supplied power intermittently to GRID as per
the requirement of WRLDC/NLDC. Being the power supply of regulatory nature, revenue is recognized based on the
Leasing of E- vehicles 43.35 36.48
weekly statements uploaded by the Western Regional Power Committee on their website.
Others 1.89 -
j) The Power Purchase Agreements (PPA) signed in respect of a power station was operative initially for a period of five
1,859.17 2,223.07
years with the beneficiary which may be extended, renewed or replaced as the parties mutually agree. The Company
Total 1,78,500.88 1,76,207.18 has continued to classify these arrangement with its customers as lease based on the practical expedient provided
in Appendix C of Ind AS 116. Accordingly, recovery of capacity charges towards depreciation, interest on loan capital
a) (i) CERC notified The Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Terms and Conditions of Tariff) Regulations, 2019 & return on equity (pre-tax) components from the beneficiary are considered as lease rentals on the assets which
vide Order dated 7 March 2019 (Regulations, 2019) for determination of tariff for the tariff period 2019-24. are on operating lease.
CERC has issued provisional tariff orders in respect of thirty nine stations of the company for the tariff period
k) The Company had ascertained that the PPA entered into for Stage-I of a power station with the beneficiary falls
2019-24. Pending issue of provisional tariff orders in respect of balance stations, capacity charges are billed to
under the definition of finance lease. Accordingly, the written down value of the specified assets was derecognized
beneficiaries in accordance with the tariff approved and applicable as on 31 March 2019, as provided in
from PPE and accounted as Finance Lease Receivable (FLR) on transition date to Ind AS. The Company has continued
Regulations, 2019. In case of new stations, which got commercialised on and after 1 April 2019 and stations
to classify this arrangement with its customer as lease based on the practical expedient provided in Appendix C of
where tariff approved and applicable as on 31 March 2019 is pending from CERC, billing is done based on
Ind AS 116. Accordingly, recovery of capacity charges towards depreciation (including AAD), interest on loan capital
capacity charges as filed with CERC in tariff petition. Accordingly, capacity charges provisionally billed for the
& return on equity (pre-tax) components from the beneficiary are continued to be adjusted against FLR. The interest
year ended 31 March 2024 is ````` 54,009.23 crore (31 March 2023: ` 50,307.67 crore). Energy and other charges
component of the FLR and amount received on account of revision of tariff of previous periods in respect of the
are billed as per the operational norms specified in the Regulations 2019. Accordingly, energy charged billed for
above three elements are continued to be recognised as ‘Interest income on Assets under finance lease’.
the year ended 31 March 2024 is ````` 1,00,326.08 crore (31 March 2023: ` 1,01,655.16 crore).
l) CERC vide notification dated 19 February 2021, notified the Second amendment to Tariff Regulations 2019, which
(ii) Capacity charges for the year ended 31 March 2024 have been provisionally recognized considering the provisions
inter alia includes mechanism for determination of transfer price of coal from integrated coal mines to generating
of CERC Tariff Regulations amounting to ````` 57,983.52 crore (31 March 2023: ` 52,588.57 crore). Energy and
stations and are effective for the period 2019-24. Coal extracted from Company’s captive mines and supplied to
Other charges for the year ended 31 March 2024 have been recognized at ````` 1,03,728.94 crore (31 March 2023:
generating stations have been accounted considering these Regulations.
` 1,05,304.14 crore) as per the operational norms specified in the Regulations 2019.
550 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 551
43. Other income a) ‘Interest from others’ includes interest on advance to APIIC for drawal of water and deposits with LIC towards
````` Crore annuity to the land oustees.
Particulars For the year For the year b) Miscellaneous income includes income from township recoveries and receipts towards insurance claims.
ended ended
c) ‘Provisions written back - Others’ include provision for shortage in construction stores, shortage in property, plant
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
and equipment and other provisions no longer required.
Interest from
d) During the year, certain disputes with vendors which were under arbitration were settled pursuant to Vivadh se
Financial assets at amortized cost
Vishwas II(Contractual liabilities) scheme of GOI. Consequentially, provision created in the earlier years have been
Non-current trade receivables 169.63 163.58 written back and included in ‘Provisions written back-Arbitration cases’ which are no longer required.
Loan to employees 68.14 69.11
Deposits with banks 308.19 103.65 44. Fuel cost
Deposits with banks out of fly ash utilisation reserve fund 56.30 29.15 ````` Crore
Less: Transferred to fly ash utilisation reserve fund 56.30 29.15
Particulars For the year For the year
- -
ended ended
Deposits with banks - DDUGJY funds 18.55 13.81 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Less: Transferred to DDUGJY advance from customers 18.55 13.81
Coal 89,857.18 93,975.55
- -
Gas 6,979.12 4,908.66
Deposits with banks - Solar payment security account - 0.94
Naptha 2.91 158.43
Less: Transferred to Solar payment security account - 0.94
- - Oil 1,314.23 1,548.75
Other investments in Joint venture companies 47.26 28.79 Biomass pellets and other chemicals 158.52 64.39
Advance to contractors and suppliers 128.12 167.15 Total 98,311.96 1,00,655.78
Income Tax refunds 299.52 1.73
Others 81.52 17.27 45. Employee benefits expense
Dividend from ````` Crore
Non-current investment in equity instruments designated 9.36 6.96
Particulars For the year For the year
at fair value through OCI
ended ended
Other non-operating income
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Late payment surcharge from beneficiaries 436.83 622.02
Salaries and wages 6,078.91 6,162.99
Hire charges for equipment 1.29 1.37
Sale of scrap 181.48 150.00 Contribution to provident and other funds 1,068.67 935.94
Gain on Option Contract 0.11 5.90 Staff welfare expenses 794.40 742.37
Miscellaneous income 449.04 423.27
7,941.98 7,841.30
Profit on de-recognition of property, plant and equipment 30.37 31.80
Less: Allocated to fuel inventory 345.99 320.34
Provisions written back
Doubtful debts 323.01 - Transferred to expenditure during construction period (net) - 865.87 861.57
Doubtful loans, advances and claims 20.77 0.17 Note 49
Shortage in inventories 10.18 52.93 Transferred to expenditure during development of coal 76.19 68.65
Obsolescence in inventories 3.65 28.05 mines (net) - Note 50
Arbitration cases 143.38 33.92
Reimbursements for employees on deputation/secondment 61.70 60.33
Unserviceable capital works 33.78 3.84
Adjusted with payable to Govt. of Jharkhand - Note 37 0.20 2.07
Others 9.48 6.41
2,755.11 1,917.92 Total 6,592.03 6,528.34
Less: Transferred to expenditure during construction period (net) - 67.39 133.67 a) Disclosures as per Ind AS 19 - ‘Employee Benefits’ in respect of provision made towards various employee benefits
Note 49 are provided in Note 58.
Transferred to expenditure during development of coal 1.12 0.85
b) Expenses on ex-gratia payments under voluntary retirement scheme are charged to statement of profit and loss in
mines (net) - Note 50
the year incurred.
Transferred to payable to Govt. of Jharkhand-Note 37 21.62 14.19
Total 2,664.98 1,769.21
552 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 553
46. Finance costs ````` Crore
````` Crore Particulars For the year For the year
Particulars For the year For the year ended ended
ended ended 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Less:
Finance costs on financial liabilities measured at amortised cost
Allocated to fuel inventory 1,227.41 1,077.05
Bonds 4,830.97 5,084.40
Transferred to expenditure during construction period (net) - 134.29 125.94
Foreign currency term loans 939.76 538.13 Note 49
Rupee term loans 8,091.27 6,899.79 Transferred to expenditure during development of coal 57.98 53.18
mines (net) - Note 50
Foreign currency bonds/notes 830.17 933.64
Adjustment with deferred revenue from deferred foreign 299.80 272.19
Cash credit 708.52 328.79
currency fluctuation
Commercial papers 144.89 396.93
Total 16,203.63 14,792.27
Others 172.14 162.01
a) Refer Note 74 w.r.t. depreciation expense of right of use assets.
15,717.72 14,343.69
Interest on non financial items 125.43 178.70 48. Other expenses
````` Crore
Exchange differences regarded as an adjustment to borrowing costs 107.50 572.58
Particulars For the year For the year
Other borrowing costs
ended ended
Guarantee fee 18.54 21.24 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Others 9.01 11.70 Power charges 375.88 401.31
27.55 32.94 Less: Recovered from contractors and employees 70.68 69.05
305.20 332.26
Sub-Total 15,978.20 15,127.91
Water charges 1,029.66 1,014.74
Less: Transferred to expenditure during construction period (net) - 3,745.49 3,774.91
Note 49 Cost of captive coal 5,150.59 3,102.15
Transferred to expenditure during development of coal 184.50 196.94 Stores consumed 282.38 251.96
mines (net) - Note 50 Rent 27.80 48.10
Total 12,048.21 11,156.06 Repairs and maintenance
a) Finance costs on financial liabilities measured at amortized cost - Others represent unwinding of lease liabilities , Buildings 452.34 452.46
vendor liabilities and provisions Plant and equipment 5,225.55 4,407.03
b) ‘Other borrowing costs - Others’ include bond issue and service expenses, commitment charges, exposure premium Others 523.39 489.66
and insurance premium & other expenses on foreign currency loans / bonds/ notes.
6,201.28 5,349.15
c) Interest on non financial items above includes interest on shortfall in payment of advance income-tax amounting Load dispatch centre charges 97.01 47.09
````` 2.52 crore (31 March 2023: ` 7.95 crore)
Insurance 483.78 472.70
d) Refer Note 74 w.r.t. Interest expense relating to lease obligations.
Interest to beneficiaries 252.30 291.09
Loss on fair valuation of non-current trade 37.74 425.61
47. Depreciation, amortisation and impairment expense
receivables at amortized cost
````` Crore
Rates and taxes 197.60 210.89
Particulars For the year For the year
Water cess and environment protection cess 1.24 0.47
ended ended
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 Training and recruitment expenses 64.57 52.15
On property, plant and equipment - Note 2 17,879.45 16,269.81 Less: Receipts 1.11 0.51
On intangible assets - Note 4 43.66 50.82 63.46 51.64
17,923.11 16,320.63
554 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 555
````` Crore ````` Crore
Particulars For the year For the year Particulars For the year For the year
ended ended ended ended
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Communication expenses 104.84 88.18 Transferred to corporate social responsibility expenses 18.36 9.67
Travelling expenses 277.19 276.83 Adjusted with payable to Govt. of Jharkhand-Note 37 0.71 4.21
Remuneration to auditors 7.58 7.36 Transferred to fly ash utilisation reserve fund 326.66 253.74
Advertisement and publicity 85.78 47.52 15,702.22 14,861.55
Electricity duty 1,557.10 1,434.48 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) expense 254.62 352.76
Security expenses 1,491.73 1,354.71
Entertainment expenses 75.80 73.33 Provisions for
Expenses for guest house 91.84 78.60 Tariff adjustments - 335.33
Less: Recoveries 5.24 5.44 Doubtful Trade Receivables 19.86 82.27
86.60 73.16 Obsolescence in inventories 38.74 52.58
Education expenses 72.78 76.80 Shortages in inventories 10.48 9.35
Donation / Grants - 0.03 Unserviceable capital works 150.22 18.95
Ash utilisation and marketing expenses 4,231.72 2,713.37 Unfinished minimum work programme for oil and gas exploration 8.60 11.01
Directors sitting fee 0.79 0.71 Arbitration cases 125.65 155.40
Professional charges and consultancy fee 104.71 154.73 Shortages in construction stores 3.09 2.35
Legal expenses 88.19 84.84 Doubtful loans, advances and claims 500.35 71.25
EDP hire and other charges 87.40 80.81 Others 7.56 15.37
Printing and stationery 8.92 7.12 864.55 753.86
Oil and gas exploration expenses 0.09 0.06 Total 16,821.39 15,968.17
Hiring of vehicles 168.76 144.93 a) During the development stage of mine, transfer price of coal extracted from Company’s captive mine has been
Net loss/(gain) in foreign currency transactions and (1,345.50) 748.92 determined considering the CERC Regulations. The same has been netted from the cost of captive coal and carried
translations to ‘Development of coal mines’ (Note 3) through ‘Transferred to expenditure during development of coal mines’
(Note 50).
Derivatives MTM loss/(gain) (net) 10.51 -
b) CERC Regulations provides that where after the truing-up, the tariff recovered is more than the tariff approved by
Horticulture expenses 77.31 77.13
the Commission, the generating Company shall pay to the beneficiaries the over recovered amount along-with
Hire charges of helicopter/aircraft 5.02 4.08
simple interest. Accordingly, the interest payable to the beneficiaries amounting to ````` 252.30 crore (31 March 2023:
Hire charges of construction equipment 7.20 5.62 ` 291.09 crore) has been accounted and disclosed as ‘Interest to beneficiaries’.
Transport vehicle running expenses 25.01 23.51 c) Miscellaneous expenses include expenditure on books & periodicals, workshops, operating expenses of DG sets,
Loss on de-recognition of property, plant and equipment 220.67 168.55 brokerage and commission, bank charges, furnishing expenses, etc.
Power Charges (e-mobility) 4.14 2.95 d) Provisions for unserviceable capital works includes an amount of ` 117.62 crore in respect of one of the hydro
Annual Maintenance Expenses - e mobility 20.90 17.56 projects whose construction activities have been stopped by the order of hon’ble Supreme Court of India in May
2014.
Miscellaneous expenses 1,321.17 525.55
e) Provisions for doubtful loans, advances and claims include an amount of ` 500.00 crore being the amount deposited
22,926.45 19,790.69
as per the orders of hon’ble Delhi Court- Refer Note 64.
Less: Allocated to fuel inventory 5,085.16 3,655.19
f) Provisions - Others include provision for doubtful debts, shortages in property, plant and equipment and other
Transferred to expenditure during construction period 741.37 668.57
losses.
(net) - Note 49
g) Preliminary expenses on account of new projects incurred prior to approval of feasibility report/techno economic
Transferred to expenditure during development of coal 1,041.46 337.76
clearance, training and recruitment expenses and voluntary community development expenses are charged to
mines (net) - Note 50
statement of profit and loss.
Transferred to derivative MTM loss/(gain) recoverable/ 10.51 -
(payable) from/to beneficiaries
556 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 557
49. Expenditure during construction period (net)* ````` Crore
````` Crore Particulars For the year For the year
Particulars For the year For the year ended ended
ended ended 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Entertainment expenses 3.35 4.27
A. Employee benefits expense Expenses for guest house 7.52 5.95
Salaries and wages 695.94 701.67 Professional charges and consultancy fee 7.36 17.13
Contribution to provident and other funds 108.99 100.16 Legal expenses 5.65 8.54
Staff welfare expenses 60.94 59.74 EDP hire and other charges 1.95 1.37
Total (A) 865.87 861.57 Printing and stationery 0.58 0.49
B. Finance costs Miscellaneous expenses 379.50 99.75
Finance costs on financial liabilities measured Total (D) 741.37 668.57
at amortised cost
E. Less: Other income
Bonds 1,039.49 1,504.30
Interest from advances to contractors and suppliers 18.35 37.40
Foreign currency term loans 458.14 177.60
Interest others 13.42 16.20
Rupee term loans 1,960.99 1,464.97
Hire charges for equipment 0.13 0.36
Foreign currency bonds/notes 111.39 205.82
Sale of scrap 0.06 0.42
Others 115.35 136.49
Miscellaneous income 35.43 79.29
Exchange differences regarded as an adjustment (4.69) 174.90
Total (E) 67.39 133.67
to borrowing costs
F. Net actuarial losses on defined benefit plans (0.10) (1.66)
Other borrowing costs - others 64.82 110.83
Grand total (A+B+C+D-E+F)** 5,419.53 5,295.66
Total (B) 3,745.49 3,774.91
* Other than for expenditure during development of coal mines- (Note 50)
C. Depreciation and amortisation expense 134.29 125.94
** Carried to Capital work-in-progress - (Note 3)
D. Other expenses
Power charges 61.41 131.39
50. Expenditure during development of coal mines (net)
Less: Recovered from contractors and employees 7.42 10.53 ````` Crore
53.99 120.86 Particulars For the year For the year
ended ended
Water charges 10.13 101.69
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Rent 4.10 3.19
A. Employee benefits expense
Repairs and maintenance
Salaries and wages 59.23 54.45
Buildings 11.89 6.36
Contribution to provident and other funds 9.32 6.25
Plant and equipment 6.05 12.13
Staff welfare expenses 7.64 7.95
Others 71.11 60.14 Total (A) 76.19 68.65
89.05 78.63 B. Finance costs
Finance costs on financial liabilities measured at amortised cost
Insurance 8.66 8.19
Bonds 45.04 68.38
Rates and taxes 27.97 49.16
Foreign currency term loans 29.90 12.08
Communication expenses 7.59 7.99
Rupee term loans 98.97 100.70
Travelling expenses 28.34 30.13
Others 10.28 8.82
Tender expenses 9.54 6.63 Other borrowing costs - others 0.31 6.96
Advertisement and publicity 0.76 0.45 Total (B) 184.50 196.94
Security expenses 95.33 124.15 C. Depreciation and amortisation expense 57.98 53.18
558 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 559
````` Crore (b) In the opinion of the management, the value of assets, other than property, plant and equipment and non-current
investments, on realisation in the ordinary course of business, will not be less than the value at which these are
Particulars For the year For the year
stated in the Balance Sheet.
ended ended
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 (c) The levy of transit fee/entry tax on supplies of fuel to some of the power stations has been paid under protest as the
matters are sub-judice at various courts. In case the Company gets refund/demand from fuel suppliers/tax authorities
D. Other expenses
on settlement of these cases, the same will be passed on to respective beneficiaries.
Power charges 2.27 3.21
Water charges 0.25 - 52 (a) Penstock I - feeding 02 (two) units (50 MW each) of Kopili Hydro Power Station, Umrongso, Assam of the Company
got ruptured on 07.10.2019 following a Load through off and tripping of Unit -I (50 MW). 03 (three) other units were
Rent 0.35 0.24
in full load during the mishap. Rupture happened at three locations of Penstock including at location immediately
Repairs and maintenance
downstream of Valve House. Penstock protection valve closing mechanism was damaged in the incident and therefore,
Buildings 0.16 0.03 the Valve could not be closed to isolate the Penstock, consequently thereafter, the Power House was flooded upto
EOT Crane beam level within a very short period. Repair, Renovation and Modernization (RRM) activities of the said
Others 12.38 4.81
generating plant is going on and as on the end of the reporting period, out of four units of on Kopili HPS (50X4 MW),
12.54 4.84
the COD of three units were already recommissioned i.e. Unit # 4: COD declared w.e.f. 00:00 hrs of 20.08.2023, Unit
Cost of captive coal produced 977.43 273.73 # 3: COD declared w.e.f. 00:00 hrs of 03.09.2023 and Unit # 2: COD declared w.e.f. 00:00 hrs of 12.11.2023. The
Rates and taxes 0.93 7.59 Turbine shaft free activity completed. Generator erection is under progress. The final unit i.e. Unit #1 is expected
within May 2024.
Communication expenses 1.41 0.99
(b) M/s Patratu Utpadan Nigam Ltd., a subsidiary of the Company, had signed the deed of adherence with Ministry of
Travelling expenses 3.33 3.09
Coal (MoC) and Jharkhand Urja Utpadan Nigam Limited (JUUNL) for Banhardih coal mine on 2 June 2017. Subsequently,
Advertisement and publicity 0.31 0.40
Deed of assignment between PVUNL and JUUNL was executed on 18 May 2018 after obtaining consent from MoC.
Security expenses 16.38 15.55 Geological Report (GR) for the coal block has been handed over by JUUNL in July 2019, which is a vital input to take
up further activities for the development of coal mine. The mining plan has been approved. The Board of Directors
Entertainment expenses 1.02 0.46
has approved the Feasibility Report (FR) of the mine during the financial year 2022-23.
Expenses for guest house 1.19 1.63
A bank guarantee (BG) of ` 237.60 crore has been submitted to MoC, GOI towards performance security for the
Professional charges and consultancy fee 6.29 10.02
development of Banhardih coal mine. MoC appropriated 50% of the BG amount of ` 118.80 crore in July 2019 for
Legal expenses 2.93 5.20 not complying with the efficiency parameters as specified in the allotment agreement. MoC was approached for
EDP hire and other charges 0.13 0.37 revision of the efficiency parameters and also refund of the appropriated amount.
Printing and stationery 0.32 0.12 A further appropriation of 15% of BG amount of ` 35.64 crore was done by MoC in December 2020 for not complying
with some more efficiency parameters as specified in the allotment agreement. The Company has decided to exercise
Miscellaneous expenses 14.38 10.32
remedies available in the allotment agreement both for revision of efficiency parameters and refund of appropriated
Total (D) 1,041.46 337.76
value of the BG and accordingly approached MoC which inter alia includes referring the matter to appropriate
E. Less: Other income tribunal for redressal. The cumulative appropriated BG value of ` 154.44 crore has been accounted as capital work
in progress for the development of the coal mine. A case was filed in Coal Tribunal, Ranchi for revision of efficiency
Interest from advances to contractors and suppliers 1.00 0.64
parameters and refund of the appropriated BG amount. The case was admitted on 19 January 2022 and notice was
Miscellaneous income 0.12 0.21
issued to Ministry of Coal (MoC).
Total (E) 1.12 0.85
Further, the Company has received third show cause notice bearing no. F. No.103/18/2015/NA dated 18 January
F. Net actuarial losses on defined benefit plans (0.18) 0.29 2022 from MoC, GoI for appropriating 17% of BG amount of ` 4,039.20 lakh for not complying with four efficiency
Grand total (A+B+C+D-E+F)* 1,358.83 655.97 parameters namely land acquisition (CBA Section-11), opening of escrow account, application for opening permission
and grant of opening permission, as specified in the allotment agreement. The Company has filed an injuction
* Carried to Capital work-in-progress - (Note 3)
petition dated 24 February 2022 in Coal Tribunal, Ranchi. Notice to the Nominated Authority of MoC was issued by
Hon’ble Judge on 2 March 2022. In the meantime, MoC has convened scrutiny committee meeting on 2 March 2022
51 (a) The Group has a system of obtaining periodic confirmation of balances from banks and other parties. There are no
wherein it was decided that as the matter is sub-judice, no further action on the matter of BG encashment will be
unconfirmed balances in respect of bank accounts and borrowings from banks & financial institutions. With regard
taken till final verdict of the Court. Furthermore, scrutiny committee on 26 May 2023 recommended that the decision
to receivables for energy sales, the Group sends demand intimations to the beneficiaries with details of amount
to be taken on non-achievement of milestone will be reviewed only after the final verdict of the Court. The pleadings
paid and balance outstanding which can be said to be automatically confirmed on receipt of subsequent payment
in the matter are complete. The arguments are in progress. The company expects that the decision will be in favour
from such beneficiaries. In addition, reconciliation with beneficiaries and other customers is generally done on
of the company.
quarterly basis. So far as trade/other payables and loans and advances are concerned, the balance confirmation
letters/emails with the negative assertion as referred in the Standard on Auditing (SA) 505 (Revised) ‘External (c) As a consequence of unprecedented dry season flood in Kopili river, the Bundh constructed at the approach channel
Confirmations’, were sent to the parties. Some of such balances are subject to confirmation/reconciliation. for taking up planned repair and renovation works overtopped on the 26th March 2022 leading to uncontrollable
Adjustments, if any will be accounted for on confirmation/reconciliation of the same, which in the opinion of the ingress of water from the Kopili reservoir into Khanding HRT. The discharge gushes down the hill slopes and inundated
management will not have a material impact.
560 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 561
the Khandong Power House (2 X 25 MW) and Kopili Stage II Power House (1 X 25 MW) causing damages to the 55 Disclosure as per Ind AS 2 ‘Inventories’
Power Stations and its Plant & Machineries. The construction activities are under progress. The RCC work in foundation
(a) Amount of inventories consumed and recognised as expense during the year is as under:
of Y-piece, Valve House up to intermediate beam level, renovation for Power House wall and Floor. Wall putty
````` Crore
cleaning 80% of inside & 20% of outside completed. Brick work 100% completed & Plastering 95%, Tail Race Channel
Renovation work: Protection works like Stone Masonry works at both sides of TRC, tail Race Channel Renovation Particulars For the year For the year
work: Protection works like Stone Masonry works at both sides of TRC, are completed. The plant level Engineering ended ended
for EM package/ approval of drawings and design memorandum, forging, Casting, machining and fabrication of 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
different component of Turbine & Generator and the switchyard are in progress. The work is scheduled to be Fuel Cost (Note 44) - Domestic 85,540.66 75,599.59
completed by May & July 2025.
- Imported 12,771.30 25,056.19
(d) The recovery of capacity charges based on capacity declaration on RLNG in respect to Ratnagiri Gas and Power
Private Limited (RGPPL), a subsidiary of the Company, was challenged by Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Others (included in Note 48 - Other expenses) - Domestic 2,137.59 1,870.71
Company Limited (MSEDCL) considering the same as violation of Power Purchase Agreement (PPA). However, Central - Imported 94.29 78.01
Electricity Regulatory Commission (CERC) vide its order dated 30 July 2013 as well as Appellate Tribunal for Electricity
Total 1,00,543.84 1,02,604.50
(APTEL) vide its order dated 22 April 2015, upheld RGPPL’s right to recover the capacity charges which was claimed
by RGPPL amounting to ` 5,287.76 crore together with interest. MSEDCL approached the Hon’ble Supreme Court of
(b) Carrying amount of inventories pledged as security for borrowings as at 31 March 2024 is ````` 17,994.62 crore (31
India vide civil appeal no. 1922 of 2023 and the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India vide its judgement dated 9 November
March 2023: ` 548.83 crore). The amount of inventories pledged as at 31 March 2024 includes ` 17,369.83 crore of
2023 dismissed the civil appeal observing that MSEDCL is misinterpreting the clauses of PPA and ordered to continue
NTPC Limited against which outstanding amount of Fund based borrowings as on 31 March 2024 is ````` Nil.
the execution petition before the APTEL. RGPPL filed execution petition in APTEL on 1 December 2023 and defects
raised by APTEL were cured on 21 December 2023 by RGPPL. Admission of execution petition and disposal of the
same by APTEL is awaited. 56. Disclosure as per Ind AS 8 - ‘Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors’
In the meanwhile MSEDCL has paid an adhoc payment of ` 500.00 crore upto 31 March 2024. Further, based on (A) Restatement for the year ended 31 March 2023 and as at 1 April 2022
MSEDCL Letter dated 12 February 2024 and commitments by MSEDCL during meeting held on 04 April 2024 chaired
In accordance with Ind AS 8 ‘Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors’ and Ind AS 1 ‘ Presentation
by Secretary (Power), Revenue of ` 1,156.16 crore and LPSC of ` 72.66 crore has been recognized in books of
of Financial Statements’, the Company has retrospectively restated its Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2023 and 1 April
accounts by RGPPL and balance has been postponed for recognition due to uncertainty in probability of collection.
2022 (beginning of the preceding period) and Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended 31 March 2023 for the reasons
53 The Company is executing a 4 X 130 MW Hydro Electric Project in the State of Uttarakhand. After the reports of land as stated in the notes below. There are no changes in the Statement of Profit and Loss for the year ended 31 March 2023
subsidence in Joshimath Town, Additional District Magistrate, Chamoli has issued order on 5 January 2023 to stop all the due to the restatement. Reconciliation of financial statement line items which are retrospectively restated are as under:
construction activities till further orders. Hon’ble High Court of Uttarakhand on hearing a public interest litigation on 12 Reconciliation of restated items of Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2023 and 1 April 2022
January 2023, has directed the State to strictly enforce the ban on construction in Joshimath area . As per Company’s ````` Crore
understanding, the land subsidence in Joshimath does not have any link with the Project which has also been confirmed
Particulars 31 March 2023 1 April 2022
through various expert reports submitted by the State of Uttarakhand in the Hon’ble High Court of Uttarakhand on 22
September 2023. The hon’ble Court on 25 September 2023 directed the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) Note As previously Adjustments As restated As previously Adjustments As restated
to make its recommendations and next date of hearing is 20 June 2024. The developments are closely being monitored reported reported
by the Company. Aggregate cost incurred on the project up to 31 March 2024 is ````` 6,671.30 crore (31 March 2023: Trade receivables-Current (a) 28,825.22 1,287.19 30,112.41 27,970.87 8,349.49 36,320.36
` 6,252.31 crore). Technical and administrative works related to the project are going on. Management does not envisage financial assets
any threat to the continuance of the project and is confident that a viable solution in connection with the project shall
Other Assets 4,17,196.23 604.61 4,17,800.84 3,88,625.54 - 3,88,625.54
be arrived in due course.
Total Assets 4,46,021.45 1,891.80 4,47,913.25 4,16,596.41 8,349.49 4,24,945.90
54 Disclosure as per Ind AS 1 ‘Presentation of financial statements’
Borrowings - Current (a) 31,921.61 1,287.19 33,208.80 27,684.07 8,349.49 36,033.56
a) Changes in material accounting policies: financial liabilities
Trade payables - (b) 86.52 (86.52) - 84.64 (84.64) -
There are no material changes in the accounting policies, However, during the year, following changes to the
Non current liabilities
accounting policies have been made:
Other financial liabilities - (b) 788.41 86.52 874.93 1,059.86 84.64 1,144.50
i) Scrap generated out of construction or maintenance jobs was hither to accounted as inventory on accrual basis.
Non current
During the year an opinion has been pronounced by EAC of ICAI against a reference made by another entity and
Trade payables- Current (b) 13,822.35 (2,466.19) 11,356.16 11,277.32 (1,226.14) 10,051.18
opined that miscellaneous scrap items i.e., other than process scrap, should not form part of inventory.
liabilities
Accordingly, the accounting of scrap has been modified and the amount of scrap appearing in the inventory as
at 1 April 2023 amounting to ` 27.55 crore has been charged off during the year. Other financial liabilities - (b) 28,181.98 2,600.46 30,782.44 27,627.52 1,226.14 28,853.66
Current
ii) Certain other changes have also been made in the material accounting policies for improved disclosures. The
Total equity 1,50,953.62 - 1,50,953.62 1,39,134.15 - 1,39,134.15
impact on the financial statements due to these changes is not material.
Other Liabilities 2,20,266.96 470.34 2,20,737.30 2,09,728.85 - 2,09,728.85
b) Refer Note 56 for disclosures relating to restatement.
Total Equity and Liabilities 4,46,021.45 1,891.80 4,47,913.25 4,16,596.41 8,349.49 4,24,945.90
562 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 563
Reconciliation of Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended 31 March 2023 (C) Material accounting policy information
````` Crore The Company adopted the amendment to Ind AS 1 – “Presentation of Financial Statements” as notified by Ministry of
Particulars Note As previously Adjustments As restated Corporate Affairs vide notification dated 31 March 2023 relating to “ Disclosure of accounting policy information” from
reported 1 April 2023. Although the amendment did not result in any changes in the accounting policies themselves, they impacted
the accounting policy information disclosed in the financial statements.
Trade receivables (a) (3,256.07) 7,062.30 3,806.23
The amendments require the disclosure of ‘material’ rather than ‘significant’ accounting policies. The amendments also
Loans, other financial assets and other assets (c) (3,845.21) 37.93 (3,807.28)
provide guidance on the application of materiality to disclosure of accounting policies, assisting entities to provide
Trade payables, provisions,Other financial (b) 3,461.28 - 3,461.28
useful, entity-specific accounting policy information that users need to understand other information in the financial
liabilities and Other liabilities statements.
Others 43,691.55 - 43,691.55
(D) Standards issued but not yet effective
Net cash flow from/(used in) operating activities (a)+(c) 40,051.55 7,100.23 47,151.78
Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) notifies new standards or amendments to the existing standards under Companies
Net cash flow from/(used in) investing activities (c) (26,107.20) (37.93) (26,145.13) (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, from time to time. MCA has not notified any new standards or amendments to the
existing standards which are effective from 1 April 2024.
Net cash flow from/(used in) financing activities (a) (14,154.47) (7,062.30) (21,216.77)
Net increase/ (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (210.12) (0.00) (210.12) 57. Income taxes related disclosures
during the year
Disclosure as per Ind AS 12 ‘Income taxes’
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 675.77 - 675.77
(a) Income tax expense
Cash and cash equivalent at the end of the year 465.65 (0.00) 465.65
i) Income tax recognised in the statement of profit and loss ````` Crore
Notes:
Particulars For the year ended
(a) Discounting of bills of beneficiaries 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
The Company has been presenting the trade receivables net of amount discounted and disclosing the amount of Current tax expense
bills discounted under contingent liabilities for possibility of recourse to the company in the Financial Statements. Current year 4,457.24 4,659.84
During the year, an opinion has been pronounced by Expert Advisory Committee (EAC) of Institute of Chartered Taxes for earlier years (161.14) 196.27
Accountants of India (ICAI) stating that the bills discounted having recourse to the Company should not be adjusted Pertaining to regulatory deferral account balances (A) 214.19 (92.68)
from the receivables, instead should be disclosed under borrowings - Current financial liabilities. The Company has Total current tax expense (B) 4,510.29 4,763.43
evaluated implementation of the EAC opinion thus presenting the amount realised through bills discounting under
Deferred tax expense
financial liability as current borrowings instead of netting off from trade receivables.Accordingly, the Company has
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 4,038.46 4,741.17
changed the accounting and presentation of the amount received from bills discounting as current borrowings from
Less: MAT credit entitlement 1,525.36 2,801.16
the financial year 2023-24 and corresponding changes in the previous periods have also been carried out. The
Total deferred tax expense (C) 2,513.10 1,940.01
changes in the presentation do not have any impact on the Statement of Profit and Loss of the Company for all the
Income tax expense (D=B+C-A) 6,809.20 6,796.12
reported periods.
Pertaining to regulatory deferral account balances 214.19 (92.68)
(b) Presentation of Contractual obligations Total tax expense including tax on movement in regulatory 7,023.39 6,703.44
The Company was including contractual obligations such as security deposit along with the dues of the vendors deferral account balances
under trade payables. A review of the same was carried out considering the Guidance Note on Schedule III to the
ii) Income tax recognised in other comprehensive income
Companies Act, 2013 and Industry practice and changed the presentation of contractual obligations from ‘Trade
payable’ to ‘Other financial liabilities’ for the year 2023-24 and corresponding changes in the previous periods have Particulars For the year ended
also been carried out. The changes in the presentation do not have any impact on the Statement of Profit and Loss
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
of the Company for all the reported periods.
Before Tax Net Before Tax Net
(c) Certain reclassifications have been made to the comparative period’s Statement of cash flows with the current tax expense/ of tax tax expense/ of tax
year’s Statement of cash flows for improved disclosure. (benefit) (benefit)
(B) Deferred Tax relate to assets and liabilities arising from a Single Transaction - Net actuarial gains/(losses) on defined (154.69) 23.24 (131.45) (104.30) 17.23 (87.07)
benefit plans
The Company has adopted the amendment to Ind AS 12 – “Income Taxes” as notified by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs
- Net gains/(losses) on fair value of equity 120.90 - 120.90 3.60 - 3.60
vide notification dated 31 March 2023 relating to “Deferred tax related to assets and liabilities arising from a single
instruments
transaction” from 1 April 2023. The amendment narrows the scope of the initial recognition exemption to exclude
- Share of other comprehensive income/ 5.69 - 5.69 1.89 - 1.89
transactions that give rise to equal and offsetting differences e.g. leases and decommissioning liabilities. As a result, the
(expense) of joint ventures accounted
Company has recognised associated deferred tax liability of ` 240.95 crore, deferred tax asset of ` 317.99 crore and
for using the equity method
regulatory deferral account balance of ` 74.32 crore on right of use assets and leases liabilities during the year, and the
- Exchange differences on translation of (19.75) - (19.75) (121.42) - (121.42)
corresponding impact of ` 2.72 crore, being the net of deferred tax income of ` 77.04 crore and regulatory deferral
foreign operations
account (expense) of ` 74.32 crore, has been recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss for the year considering
materiality. (47.85) 23.24 (24.61) (220.23) 17.23 (203.00)
564 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 565
(b) Tax losses carried forward Movement in net defined benefit (asset)/liability
````` Crore ````` Crore
Particulars 31 March Expiry 31 March Expiry Particulars Defined benefit Fair value of Net defined benefit
2024 date 2023 date obligation plan assets (asset) liability
Long-term capital loss for which no deferred tax asset 2,105.19 31-03-2029 2,105.19 31-03-2029 For the year ended For the year ended For the year ended
has been recognised due to uncertainty involved
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March
Unabsorbed Depreciation 3,156.76 - 1,523.56 - 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
Opening balance 12,900.89 12,210.96 12,947.53 12,243.80 (46.63) (32.83)
(c) Refer Note 56(B) relating to adjustment to deferred tax assets and liabilities relating to ROU assets / lease liabilities.
Current service cost recognised 367.16 355.42 - - 367.16 355.42
in statement of profit and loss
58. Disclosure as per Ind AS 19 ‘Employee benefits’
Interest cost/(income) 1,023.52 979.02 (1,023.16) (979.02) 0.36 -
(i) Defined contribution plans:
Total 1,390.68 1,334.44 (1,023.16) (979.02) 367.52 355.42
Pension Remeasurement loss (gain):
The defined contribution pension scheme of the Group for its employees which is effective from 1 January 2007, is Actuarial loss (gain) arising from:
administered through a separate trust. The obligation of the Group is to contribute to the trust to the extent of amount
Demographic assumptions - - - - - -
not exceeding 30% of basic pay and dearness allowance less employer’s contribution towards provident fund, gratuity,
Financial assumptions 1.25 (0.89) - - 1.25 (0.89)
post retirement medical facility (PRMF) or any other retirement benefits. The Group’s contribution towards pension is
made to National Pension System Trust (NPS) for the employees opted for the scheme. An amount of ````` 339.38 crore (31 Experience adjustment (3.70) (20.03) - - (3.70) (20.03)
March 2023: ` 336.94 crore) for the year is recognized as expense towards contributions to the defined contribution Return on plan assets excluding - - 18.93 14.01 18.93 14.01
pension scheme of the Group/NPS for the year and charged to the statement of profit and loss. interest income
(ii) Defined benefit plans: Total (2.45) (20.92) 18.93 14.01 16.48 (6.91)
Other*
Defined benefit plans of the Company are administered by separate funds which are legally separated from the Company.
The management of funds is governed by their respective board of the trustees who are responsible for administration Contribution by participants 714.00 748.55 714.00 748.55 - -
of the plan as per the provisions of the Trust deed and statutory provisions, as applicable. The board of the trustees are Contribution by employer - - 391.37 362.30 (391.37) (362.30)
required by law to act in best interests of the plan participants and are responsible for setting certain policies (such as
Benefits paid 1,726.98 1,372.14 1,728.59 1,372.13 (1.61) 0.01
investments decisions, contribution schedules, claim settlement) of the funds.
Closing balance 13,276.14 12,900.89 13,328.54 12,947.53 (52.39) (46.63)
A. Provident fund
Pursuant to paragraph 57 of Ind AS 19, accounting by an entity for defined benefit plans, inter-alia, involves determining
The Group pays fixed contribution to provident fund at predetermined rates to a separate trust, which invests the funds
the amount of the net defined benefit liability (asset) which shall be adjusted for any effect of limiting a net defined
in permitted securities. The Group has an obligation to ensure minimum rate of return to the members as specified by
benefit asset to the asset ceiling prescribed in paragraph 64. As per Para 64 of Ind AS 19, in case of surplus in a defined
GOI. Accordingly, the Group has obtained report of the actuary, based on which overall interest earnings and cumulative
benefit plan, an entity shall measure the net defined benefit asset at the lower of actual surplus or the value of the
surplus is more than the statutory interest payment requirement for all the periods presented. Further, contribution to
assets ceiling determined using the discount rate. The asset ceiling is the present value of any economic benefits available
employees pension scheme is paid to the appropriate authorities.
in the form of refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan. Further, paragraph 65 provides
Based on the actuarial valuation obtained in this respect, the following table sets out the status of the provident fund that a net defined benefit asset may arise where a defined benefit plan has been overfunded or where actuarial gains
plan as at balance sheet date: have arisen.
````` Crore As per the provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952, the Group has no right
to the benefits either in the form of refund from the plan or lower future contribution to the plan towards the net
Particulars As at As at
surplus of ````` 52.39 crore (31 March 2023: ` 46.63 crore) determined through actuarial valuation. Accordingly, Group has
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
not recognised the surplus as an asset, and the actuarial gains in ‘Other Comprehensive Income’, as these pertain to the
Net defined benefit (asset)/liability - Current (52.39) (46.63) Provident Fund Trust and not to the Group.
As per the provisions of Employee’s Provident Funds Scheme 1952, the employer shall be liable to make good the loss to
the Trust in the event of any loss as a result of any fraud, defalcation, wrong investment decisions etc. to the Trust.
Keeping in view the above, a provision of ````` Nil (31 March 2023 ` 12.81 crore) has been recognized in the Statement of
Profit and Loss during the year, towards such loss to the trust.
B. Gratuity and pension
a) The Group has a defined benefit gratuity plan. Every employee who has rendered continuous service of five years or
more is entitled to gratuity at 15 days salary (15/26 X last drawn basic salary plus dearness allowance) for each completed
year of service subject to a maximum of ` 0.20 crore on superannuation, resignation, termination, disablement or on
death, considering the provisions of the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972, as amended.
566 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 567
b) The Group has pension schemes at two of its stations in respect of employees taken over from erstwhile state government C. Post-Retirement Medical Facility (PRMF)
power utilities. These pension schemes are unfunded. The liability for the pension schemes is recognised on the basis of
The Group has Post-Retirement Medical Facility (PRMF), under which the retired employees and their spouses are provided
actuarial valuation.
medical facilities in the Group hospitals/empanelled hospitals. They can also avail treatment as out-patient subject to a
Based on the actuarial valuation obtained in this respect, the following table sets out the status of the gratuity and ceiling fixed by the Group. The liability for the same is recognised annually on the basis of actuarial valuation. A trust has
pension plan and the amounts recognised in the Group’s financial statements as at balance sheet date: been constituted for its employees superannuated on or after 1 January 2007, for the sole purpose of providing post
retirement medical facility to them.
````` Crore
Particulars As at As at Based on the actuarial valuation obtained in this respect, the following table sets out the status of the PRMF and the
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 amounts recognised in the Group’s financial statements as at balance sheet date:
````` Crore
Net defined benefit (asset)/liability :
Gratuity (funded) 96.91 (24.71) Particulars As at As at
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Gratuity (non-funded) 173.59 174.92
Net defined benefit (asset)/liability - (funded) 307.79 312.86
Pension (non-funded) 540.02 532.75
Net defined benefit (asset)/liability - (non-funded) - -
810.52 682.95
307.79 312.86
Breakup
Non-current - -
Non-current 651.34 654.51
Current 307.79 312.86
Current 159.18 28.45
Movement in net defined benefit (asset)/liability ````` Crore
Movement in net defined benefit (asset)/liability ````` Crore
Particulars Defined benefit Fair value of Net defined benefit
Particulars Defined benefit Fair value of Net defined benefit
obligation plan assets (asset) liability
obligation plan assets (asset) liability
For the year ended For the year ended For the year ended
For the year ended For the year ended For the year ended
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March
2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
Opening balance 2,978.48 2,618.22 2,665.62 2,410.75 312.86 207.47
Opening balance 2,842.04 2,989.60 2,159.08 2,157.06 682.95 832.53
Included in profit or loss:
Included in profit or loss:
Current service cost 51.65 51.73 - - 51.65 51.73
Current service cost 109.77 110.23 - - 109.77 110.23
Past service cost - - - - - -
Past service cost 85.68 - - - 85.68 -
Interest cost (income) 220.41 183.29 (218.58) (181.66) 1.83 1.63
Interest cost (income) 208.42 209.24 (156.16) (156.42) 52.26 52.82
Total amount recognised in profit or loss 272.06 235.02 (218.58) (181.66) 53.48 53.36
Total amount recognised in profit or loss 403.87 319.47 (156.16) (156.42) 247.71 163.05
Included in other comprehensive income:
Included in other comprehensive income:
Remeasurement loss (gain):
Remeasurement loss (gain): Actuarial loss (gain) arising from:
Actuarial loss (gain) arising from: Demographic assumptions - - - - - -
Demographic assumptions - - - - - - Financial assumptions 114.65 (109.53) - - 114.65 (109.53)
Financial assumptions 50.80 (85.87) - - 50.80 (85.87) Experience adjustment 161.73 414.77 - - 161.73 414.77
Experience adjustment (119.46) (48.85) - - (119.46) (48.85) Return on plan assets excluding interest - - (27.90) (30.60) (27.90) (30.60)
income
Return on plan assets excluding interest - - (14.88) (31.94) (14.88) (31.94)
Total amount recognised in other 276.38 305.25 (27.90) (30.60) 248.48 274.65
income
comprehensive income
Total amount recognised in other (68.66) (134.72) (14.88) (31.94) (83.54) (166.66) Out of the above an amount of ````` 5.47 crore (31 March 2023: ` 6.84 crore) has been transferred to expenditure during
comprehensive income construction period / development of coal mines.
Out of the above an amount of (-) ````` 5.46 crore (31 March 2023: (-) ` 5.68 crore) has been transferred to expenditure Other
during construction period / development of coal mines. Contribution by participants - - 11.67 15.15 (11.67) (15.15)
Other Contribution by employer - - 295.36 207.46 (295.36) (207.46)
Benefits paid 201.39 180.01 201.39 180.01 - -
Contribution by employer - - (23.18) 88.05 23.18 (88.05)
Closing balance 3,325.53 2,978.48 3,017.74 2,665.62 307.79 312.86
Benefits paid 318.07 332.31 258.29 274.39 59.78 57.92
Closing balance 2,859.18 2,842.04 2,048.65 2,159.08 810.52 682.95 Out of the above net liability, an amount of ````` 269.32 crore (31 March 2023: ` 220.65 crore) has been adjusted with the
amount recoverable from the trust.
Out of the above net liability, an amount of ````` 91.83 crore (31 March 2023: ` Nil) has been adjusted with the amount
recoverable from the trust.
568 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 569
D. Other retirement benefit plans F. Defined benefit obligations
Other retirement benefit plans include baggage allowance for settlement at home town for employees and dependents i. Actuarial assumptions
and farewell gift to the superannuating employees. The scheme above is unfunded and liability for the same is recognised
The following were the principal actuarial assumptions at the reporting date: ````` Crore
on the basis of actuarial valuation.
Particulars As at As at
````` Crore
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Particulars As at As at
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 Discount rate 7.10% 7.40%
Net defined benefit (asset)/liability (non-funded) : 204.04 206.19 Expected return on plan assets
Non-current 178.29 178.73 Gratuity 7.10% 7.40%
Current 25.75 27.46
Pension 7.10% 7.40%
Movement in net defined benefit (asset)/liability ````` Crore PRMF 7.10% 7.40%
Particulars Defined benefit obligation Annual increase in costs 6.50% 6.50%
As at As at Salary escalation rate 6.50% 6.50%
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
The estimates of future salary increases considered in actuarial valuation, take account of inflation, seniority, promotion
Opening balance 206.19 211.57
and other relevant factors, such as supply and demand in the employment market. Further, the expected return on plan
Included in profit or loss:
assets is determined considering several applicable factors mainly the composition of plan assets held, assessed risk of
Current service cost 10.93 10.11 asset management and historical returns from plan assets.
Past service cost - -
ii. Sensitivity analysis
Interest cost (income) 15.27 15.05
Total amount recognised in profit or loss 26.20 25.16 Reasonably possible changes at the reporting date to one of the relevant actuarial assumptions, holding other assumptions
Included in other comprehensive income: constant, would have affected the defined benefit obligation by the amounts shown below.
Remeasurement loss (gain): ````` Crore
Actuarial loss (gain) arising from:
Particulars As at 31 March 2024 As at 31 March 2023
Demographic assumptions - -
Increase Decrease Increase Decrease
Financial assumptions 4.61 (6.73)
Experience adjustment (14.28) (5.40) Discount rate (0.5% movement) (250.69) 266.65 (227.16) 240.79
Return on plan assets excluding interest income - Annual increase in costs (0.5% movement) 130.40 (128.41) 113.20 (110.39)
Total amount recognised in other comprehensive income (9.67) (12.13)
Salary escalation rate (0.5% movement) 124.34 (117.23) 115.38 (109.12)
Other
Contributions paid by the employer - - Although the analysis does not take account of the full distribution of cash flows expected under the plan, it does
provide an approximation of the sensitivity of the assumptions shown.
Benefits paid 18.68 18.41
Closing balance 204.04 206.19 The sensitivity analysis above have been determined based on a method that extrapolates the impact on defined benefit
obligation as a result of reasonable changes in key assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period. This analysis
E. Plan assets may not be representative of the actual change in the defined benefit obligations as it is unlikely that the change in
Plan assets comprise the following: ````` Crore assumptions would occur in isolation of one another as some of the assumptions may be correlated.
Particulars As at 31 March 2024 As at 31 March 2023 G. Risk exposure
Quoted Unquoted Total Quoted Unquoted Total Through its defined benefit plans, the Company is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which are
State government securities 7,819.48 - 7,819.48 7,481.48 - 7,481.48 detailed below:
Central government securities 1,620.39 - 1,620.39 1,777.16 - 1,777.16 a) Asset volatility
Corporate bonds and term deposits 4,455.20 56.20 4,511.40 4,412.93 47.93 4,460.86
The plan liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to bond yields; if plan assets underperform
Money market instruments/liquid 45.33 - 45.33 - 10.62 10.62 this yield, this will create a deficit. Most of the plan asset investments are in fixed income securities with high grades
mutual fund and in government securities. These are subject to interest rate risk and the fund manages interest rate risk with
Equity and equity linked investments 374.86 - 374.86 216.27 - 216.27 derivatives to minimise risk to an acceptable level. A portion of the funds are invested in equity securities and in
Investments with insurance companies - 4,154.56 4,154.56 - 3,808.86 3,808.86 alternative investments which have low correlation with equity securities. The equity securities are expected to
earn a return in excess of the discount rate and contribute to the plan deficit. The Group has a risk management
Total (excluding accrued interest) 14,315.25 4,210.76 18,526.01 13,887.84 3,867.41 17,755.25
strategy where the aggregate amount of risk exposure on a portfolio level is maintained at a fixed range. Any deviations
As at 31 March 2024, an amount of ` Nil (31 March 2023: ` 70.00 crore) is included in the value of plan assets (in respect
from the range are corrected by rebalancing the portfolio. The Group intends to maintain the above investment mix
of the reporting enterprise’s own financial instruments (Corporate bonds).
in the continuing years.
Actual return on plan assets is ````` 1,421.75 crore (31 March 2023: ` 1,365.62 crore).
570 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 571
b) Changes in discount rate service. Half-pay leaves (HPL) are en-cashable only on separation beyond the age of 50 years up to the maximum of 300
days. However, total number of leave (i.e. EL & HPL combined) that can be encashed on superannuation shall be restricted
A decrease in discount rate will increase plan liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the
to 300 days and no commutation of half-pay leave shall be permissible. The scheme is unfunded and liability for the
value of the plans’ assets holdings.
same is recognised on the basis of actuarial valuation. During the year, provision amounting to ````` 132.90 crore has been
c) Inflation risks made on the basis of actuarial valuation at the year end and debited to statement of profit and loss (31 March 2023:
` 103.33 crore).
In the pension plans, the pensions in payment are not linked to inflation, so this is a less material risk.
B. Other employee benefits
d) Life expectancy
Provision for long service award and family economic rehabilitation scheme amounting to ````` 4.10 crore (31 March 2023:
The pension plan obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will
(-) ` 12.44 crore) for the year have been made on the basis of actuarial valuation at the year end and debited to the
result in an increase in the plans’ liabilities. This is particularly significant where inflationary increases result in
statement of profit and loss.
higher sensitivity to changes in life expectancy.
The Group ensures that the investment positions are managed within an asset-liability matching (ALM) framework 59. Disclosure as per Ind AS 21 ‘The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates’
that has been developed to achieve long-term investments that are in line with the obligations under the employee
The amount of exchange differences (net) debited to the statement of profit and loss, net of movement in regulatory
benefit plans. Within this framework, the Group’s ALM objective is to match assets to the pension obligations by
deferral account balances, is ````` 5.73 crore (31 March 2023: ` 39.02 crore).
investing in long-term fixed interest securities with maturities that match the benefit payments as they fall due and
in the appropriate currency.
60. Disclosure as per Ind AS 23 ‘Borrowing Costs’
The Group actively monitors how the duration and the expected yield of the investments are matching the expected
Borrowing costs capitalised during the year is ````` 3,928.12 crore (31 March 2023: ` 3,971.85 crore).
cash outflows arising from the employee benefit obligations. The Group has not changed the processes used to
manage its risks from previous periods. The Group uses derivatives to manage some of its risk. Investments are well
61. Disclosure as per Ind AS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’
diversified, such that the failure of any single investment would not have a material impact on the overall level of
assets. a) List of Related parties:
A large portion of assets consists of government and corporate bonds. The plan asset mix is in compliance with the i) Joint venture companies:
requirements of the respective local regulations.
1. Utility Powertech Ltd.
H. Expected maturity analysis of the defined benefit plans in future years
2. NTPC-GE Power Services Private Ltd.
````` Crore
3. NTPC-SAIL Power Company Ltd.
Particulars Less than Between Between Over Total
1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years 4. NTPC Tamil Nadu Energy Company Ltd.
31 March 2024 5. Aravali Power Company Private Ltd.
Gratuity and pension 309.57 300.48 649.52 1,599.61 2,859.18 6. Meja Urja Nigam Private Ltd.
Post-retirement medical facility (PRMF) 235.04 251.24 899.11 1,940.11 3,325.50 7. NTPC BHEL Power Projects Private Ltd.
Provident fund 2,843.37 1,143.64 2,354.08 6,935.08 13,276.17
8. National High Power Test Laboratory Private Ltd.
Other post-employment benefit plans 25.74 22.81 44.92 110.57 204.04
9. Transformers and Electricals Kerala Ltd.
Total 3,413.72 1,718.17 3,947.63 10,585.37 19,664.89
10. Energy Efficiency Services Ltd.
31 March 2023
11. CIL NTPC Urja Private Ltd.
Gratuity and pension 326.91 295.50 663.76 1,555.87 2,842.04
12. Anushakti Vidhyut Nigam Ltd.
Post-retirement medical facility (PRMF) 195.60 205.93 711.47 1,865.47 2,978.48
Provident fund 2,597.76 1,152.54 2,671.37 6,479.23 12,900.90 13. Hindustan Urvarak & Rasayan Ltd.
Other post-employment benefit plans 27.43 23.18 49.57 105.64 205.82 14. Jhabua Power Limited.
Total 3,147.70 1,677.15 4,096.17 10,006.22 18,927.23 15. Trincomalee Power Company Ltd.
Expected contributions to post-employment benefit plans for the year ending 31 March 2025 are ````` 635.82 crore. 16. Bangladesh-India Friendship Power Company Private Ltd.
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit plan obligation at the end of the reporting period is 15.97 years
Joint venture company of NEEPCO (a Subsidiary of the Company)
(31 March 2023: 15.34 years).
1. KSK Dibbin Hydro Power Private Ltd
(iii) Other long term employee benefit plans
A. Leave Joint venture company of NTPC Green Energy Limited
1. Indian Oil NTPC Green Energy Limited (W.e.f 2 June 2023)
The Group provides for earned leave benefit (including compensated absences) and half-pay leave to the employees of
the Companies which accrue annually at 30 days and 20 days respectively. Earned leave (EL) is en-cashable while in
572 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 573
Subsidiary companies of Energy Efficiency Services Ltd., a Joint venture of the Company Mr. A.K. Gautam Chairman Upto 31 May 2022
1. EESL EnergyPro Assets Ltd. Mr. Shivam Srivastava Director W.e.f. 19 February 2024
2. EESL Energy Solutions LLC Ms. Rachana Singh Bhal Director W.e.f. 10 November 2023
3. Convergence Energy Services Ltd. Mr. Ajay Dua Director W.e.f. 11 May 2022
Mr. K Shanmugha Sundaram Director W.e.f. 12 October 2023 upto
ii) Key Management Personnel (KMP):
19 February 2024
Parent Company:
Mr. Ratnesh Director W.e.f. 8 June 2022 upto 30
Whole Time Directors September 2023
Mr. Gurdeep Singh Chairman and Managing Director Ms. Shoba Pattabhiraman Director W.e.f. 11 October 2022 upto
10 November 2023
Mr. Jaikumar Srinivasan Director (Finance) W.e.f. 21 July 2022
Ms. Nandini Sarkar Director Upto 30 September 2022
Mr. A.K.Gautam Director (Finance) Upto 31 May 2022
Mr. Anil Nautiyal Director Upto 30 April 2022
Mr. Dillip Kumar Patel Director (HR)
Ms. Renu Narang Chief Executive Officer W.e.f. 24 June 2023
Mr Ramesh Babu V. Director (Operations) Upto 31 January 2024
Mr. Ajit Kumar Bishoi Chief Executive Officer W.e.f. 29 December 2022 upto
Mr. Chandan Kumar Mondol Director (Commercial) Upto 31 January 2023
26 May 2023
Mr. Ujjwal Kanti Bhattacharya Director (Projects) Upto 30 November 2023
Mr. Praveen Saxena Chief Executive Officer Upto 30 September 2022
Mr. Shivam Srivastav Director (Fuel) W.e.f. 30 April 2023
Mr. Kumar Sanjay Chief Financial Officer Upto 31 December 2023
Mr. K Shanmugha Sundaram Director (Projects) W.e.f. 1 December 2023
Mr. Nitin Mehra Company Secretary
Mr. Ravindra Kumar Director (Operations) W.e.f. 26 February 2024
2. NTPC Electric Supply Company Ltd.
Independent Directors
Mr. Dillip Kumar Patel Chairman
Mr. Jitendra Jayantilal Tanna Non-executive Director
Mr. Nasaka Srinivasa Rao Director W.e.f. 19 January 2024
Mr. Vivek Gupta Non-executive Director
Mr. Masood Akhtar Ansari Director W.e.f. 16 December 2023
Mr. Vidyadhar Vaishampayan Non-executive Director
Mr. Praveen Saxena Director Upto 31 December 2023
Ms. Sangitha Varier Non-executive Director
Mr. Sandeep Aggarwal Director W.e.f. 10 October 2022 upto
Government Nominee Directors 30 November 2023
Mr. Ashish Upadhyaya Non-executive Director Upto 31 December 2023 Mr. Rajendra Mohan Arya Director Upto 30 September 2022
Mr. Piyush Singh Non-executive Director W.e.f 31 May 2022 Ms. Renu Narang Chief Executive Officer (Note: ceased to be a CEO
(KMP) as per the Companies
Mr. Vivek Kumar Dewangan Non-executive Director Upto 30 May 2022
Act, 2013, w.e.f. 26 May 2023,
though continued as CEO as
Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary
per Article of Association of
Ms. Renu Narang Chief Financial Officer W.e.f. 1 June 2022 upto NESCL
20 July 2022
Ms. Vijeta Saini Company Secretary W.e.f. 23 January 2024
Ms. Ritu Arora Company Secretary W.e.f. 29 January 2024
Mr. Amit Prakash Company Secretary Upto 23 January 2024
Mr. Arun Kumar Company Secretary W.e.f. 29 October 2022 upto
28 January 2024 3. Bhartiya Rail Bijlee Company Limited
Ms. Nandini Sarkar Company Secretary Upto 30 September 2022 Mr. Ravindra Kumar Chairman W.e.f. 7 March 2024
Mr. Shivam Srivastava Chairman W.e.f. 21 February 2024 Upto
Subsidiary Companies:
6 March 2024
1. NTPC Vidyut Vyapar Nigam Ltd.
Mr. Ramesh Babu V Chairman Upto 31 January 2024
Mr. Dillip Kumar Patel Chairman W.e.f. 3 February 2023
Mr. R.K. Jain Non-executive Director
Mr. Chandan Kumar Mondol Chairman & Director Chairman w.e.f. 8 June 2022
Mr. DGSSS Babji Additional Director W.e.f. 30 November 2022 upto
Upto 31 January 2023
15 November 2023
574 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 575
Mr. Sudip Nag Additional Director W.e.f. 29 December 2023 Mr. P K Mishra Non-Executive Director W.e.f 1 April 2023
Mr. Sital Kumar Nischal Additional Director Upto 17 November 2022 Mr. Muthyala V Reddy Chief Executive Officer W.e.f 11 May 2023 upto
31 August 2023
Ms. Renu Narang Non-executive Director
Mr. Animesh Jain Chief Executive Officer W.e.f 13th September 2023
Mr. Ravi Prakash Chief Executive Officer W.e.f. 9 May 2022 upto
31 March 2024 Mr. Gaurav Rastogi Chief Financial Officer W.e.f 13th September 2023
Mr. P M Jena Chief Executive Officer Upto 27 April 2022 Mr Amit Garg Company Secretary W.e.f. 4 December 2023
Ms. Vijayasree Ranganathan Chief Financial Officer W.e.f. 30 October 2023 ** Non executive director w.e.f 11 May 2023
Mr. N Venkataramana Chief Financial Officer Upto 17 October 2023 * Non executive director upto 6 March 2023, CEO w.e.f 6 March 2023 Upto 8 May 2023
Mr. Dinesh Company Secretary W.e.f. 24 January 2024
6. THDC India Ltd.
Mr. Kamal Nath Thakur Company Secretary Upto 31 October 2023
Mr. R K Vishnoi* Chairman & Managing Director
4. Patratu Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Ltd. Mr. J. Behera Director (Finance) & Upto 29 February 2024
Mr. K Shanmugha Sundaram Chairman W.e.f. 18 December 2023 Chief Financial Officer
Mr. Ujjwal Kanti Bhattacharya Chairman Upto 30 November 2023 Mr. Bhupinder Gupta Director( Technical) W.e.f 9 June 2023
Mr. Avinash Kumar, IAS Director Mr. Shallinder Singh Kaushal Director (Personnel) W.e.f 6 June 2023
Mr. Avnish Srivastava Director Mr. U.K.Bhattacharya Non-executive Director Upto 30 November 2023
Ms. Renu Narang Director W.e.f. 2 December 2022 Mr. Jaikumar Srinivasan Non-executive Director W.e.f. 17 August 2022
Ms. Nandini Sarkar Director Upto 30 September 2022 Mr. A.K.Gautam Non-executive Director Upto 31 May 2022
Mr. Randhir Kumar Singh Chief Executive Officer W.e.f. 8 January 2024 Mr. Anil Garg Non-executive Director W.e.f. 26 April 2022
Mr. Ravindra Kumar Chief Executive Officer W.e.f. 15 February 2023 upto Mr. Ajay Tewari Non-executive Director W.e.f 20 February 2024
6 January 2024 Mr. Jitesh John Non-executive Director Upto 30 November 2023
Mr. Prem Parkash Chief Executive Officer Upto 15 February 2023 Mr. Kesridevsinh Digvijaysinh Jhala Independent Director Upto 11 July 2023
Mr. Nagendra Kumar Mishra Chief Financial Officer W.e.f. 22 August 2022 Ms. Sajal Jha Independent Director
Ms. Niharika Agarwal Company Secretary W.e.f. 8 November 2023 Dr. Bajalakaria JayaPrakash Naik Independent Director
Mr. Sipan K. Garg Chief Financial Officer* & *Chief Financial Officer upto Mr. Ajay Kumar Garg Chief Financial Officer W.e.f 31 March 2024
Company Secretary 20 July 2022 Company
Ms. Rashmi Sharma Company Secretary
Secretary upto 8 November
2023 *Holding additional charge of Director (Finance) w.e.f 1 March 2024
5. NTPC Mining Ltd. 7. North Eastern Electric Power Corporation Ltd.
Mr. Shivam Srivastav** Chairman W.e.f 6 June 2023 Mr. R K Vishnoi Chairman Holding additional charge of
Mr. Ramesh Babu V. Chairman W.e.f 3 February 2023 Upto CMD upto 31 May 2023 &
31 May 2023 Non-Executive Director (Tech) upto 17 April
Director w.e.f 20 December 2023
2023 upto 31 January 2024 Mr. Gurdeep Singh Chairman & Managing Director W.e.f. 1 June 2023
Mr. Chandan Kumar Mondol Chairman Upto 31 January 2023 Mr. V K Singh* Chairman & Managing Director Upto 31 May 2022
Mr. Ravindra Kumar Non-Executive Director W.e.f. 9 March 2024 Maj Gen Rajesh Kumar Jha, AVSM (retd) Director (Personnel) W.e.f. 25 September 2023
Mr. Aditya Dar Non-Executive Director Mr. Dillip Kumar Patel Director (Personnel) W.e.f 18 July 2023 to 31 July
Mr. K Shanmugha Sundaram Non-Executive Director W.e.f 25 February 2024 Upto 2023 and w.e.f 14 September
6 March 2024 2023 upto 24 September 2023
Mr. Ashwini Kumar Tripathy Non-Executive Director W.e.f 30 March 2023 Upto Mr. Anil Kumar Director (Personnel) Upto 31 October 2022
31 May 2023 Mr. B Maharana** Director (Finance) &
Mr. Partha Mazumdar* Non-Executive Director W.e.f 6 June 2023 upto Chief Financial officer
31 December 2023
576 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 577
Mr. Ranendra Sarma Director (Technical) W.e.f. 18 April 2023 Mr. Sundeep Kumar Sharma Director
Ms. Mala Sinha Independent Director Upto 10 July 2022 Mr. Arun Kumar Director
Dr Viveka Nand Paswan Independent Director Mr. Achal Kumar Arora Director Upto 31 March 2023
Bimal Chand Oswal Independent Director Mr. Ajit Kumar Bishoi Director W.e.f. 17 May 2023 upto
14 September 2023
Mr. Piyush Singh Nominee Director GOI W.e.f. 20 February 2024
Mr. Rajesh Kumar Roy Chief Executive Officer W.e.f. 25 November 2022 upto
Mr. Jithesh John Nominee Director GOI Upto 30 November 2023
30 September 2023
Mr. Jaikumar Srinivasan Nominee Director NTPC LTD W.e.f. 17 August 2022
Mr. Amit Kumar Kulshreshtha Chief Executive Officer Upto 28 October 2022
Mr. Shambhu Nath Tripathi Nominee Director NTPC LTD W.e.f. 15 December 2023
Mr. Manoj Srivastava Chief Financial Officer Upto 31 January 2024
Mr. Anil Kumar Gautam Nominee Director NTPC LTD Upto 31 May 2022
Mr. Ujjwal Kanti Bhattacharya Nominee Director NTPC LTD Upto 30 November 2023 10. Ratnagiri Gas & Power Private Ltd.
Mr. Abinoam Panu Rong Company Secretary Mr. Jaikumar Srinivasan Chairman W.e.f 13 January 2024
Mr. Praveen Saxena Chairman Upto 31 December 2023
*Holding additional charge of Director (Technical) upto 31 May 2022
Ms. Sangeeta Kaushik Non-executive Director
**Holding additional charge of Director (Personnel) w.e.f 1 November 2022 upto 31 January 2023
Mr. P: Anbalagan Non-executive Director W.e.f 19 January 2023
8. NTPC Green Energy Limited
Mr. Sanjay Khandare Non-executive Director Upto 30 September 2022
Mr. K Shanmugha Sundaram Chairman W.e.f 11 January 2024
Mr. Ajay Dua Non-executive Director W.e.f 28 March 2024
Mr. Gurdeep Singh Chairman W.e.f 9 August 2022 upto
Mr. Aditya Dar Non-executive Director Upto 12 March 2024
8 January 2024
Mr. S K Takhele Chief Executive Officer W.e.f 1 March 2024
Mr. Jaikumar Srinivasan Non-executive Director W.e.f 9 August 2022
Mr. Sanjay Agarwal Chief Executive Officer W.e.f. 1 March 2023 upto
Mr. Ajay Dua Non-executive Director W.e.f 17 February 2023
29 February 2024
Ms. Sangeeta Kaushik Non-executive Director W.e.f 8 December 2023
Mr. Vijay Goel Chief Executive Officer W.e.f. 1 January 2023 upto
Mr. Chandan Kumar Mondol Non-executive Director W.e.f 7 April 2022 upto 28 February 2023
31 January 2023
Mr. Asim Kumar Samanta Chief Executive Officer Upto 31 December 2022
Mr. Aditya Dar Non-executive Director W.e.f 7 April 2022 upto
Mr. Ajay Sharma Chief Financial Officer Upto 20 June 2023
9 August 2022
Mr. Amit Verma Company Secretary W.e.f 23 April 2022
Mr. Vinay Kumar Non-executive Director W.e.f 7 April 2022 upto
9 August 2022 Mr. Pankaj Kumar Jha Chief Financial Officer W.e.f. 20 June 2023
Mr. Rajiv Gupta Chief Executive Officer W.e.f 2 March 2024
11. NTPC Renewable Energy Limited - Subsidiary of NTPC Green Energy Limited
Mr. Mohit Bhargava Chief Executive Officer W.e.f 5 July 2022 upto
Mr. K Shanmugha Sundaram Chairman W.e.f 11 January 2024
29 February 2024
Mr. Gurdeep Singh Chairman W.e.f. 6 August 2022 upto
Ms. Shoba Pattabhiraman Non-executive Director W.e.f 25 July 2023 upto
8 January 2024
10 November 2023
Mr. Jaikumar Srinivasan Director W.e.f. 6 August 2022
Mr. Neeraj Sharma Chief Financial Officer W.e.f 12 May 2023
Ms. Sangeeta Kaushik Director W.e.f. 7 October 2022
Mr. Manish Kumar Company Secretary W.e.f 21 December 2022
Mr. Ajay Dua Director W.e.f. 21 February 2023
9. NTPC EDMC Waste Solutions Private Ltd. Mr. C K Mondol Chairman/Director Chairman upto 6 August 2022,
Mr. K Shanmugha Sundaram Chairman Director w.e.f. 21 October Director upto 31 January 2023
2023, Chairman w.e.f. Mr. Vinay Kumar Director Upto 6 August 2022
10 January 2024
Mr. Aditya Dar Director Upto 6 August 2022
Mr. Sital Kumar Nischal Chairman Upto 31 December 2023
Ms Nandini Sarkar Director Upto 30 September 2022
Mr. Chithirai Velu Kumar Director W.e.f. 12 January 2024
Mr. Rajiv Gupta Chief Executive Officer W.e.f. 8 December 2023
Mr. Mohit Bhargava* Chief Executive Officer Upto 8 December 2023
578 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 579
Mr. Neeraj Sharma Chief Financial Officer W.e.f. 25 July 2022 15. TREDCO Rajasthan Limited - Subsidiary of THDC
Ms. Rashmi Aggarwal Company Secretary W.e.f. 28 July 2022 Mr. R K Vishnoi Chairman W.e.f. 1 December 2023
Mr. Sandeep Singhal Nominee Director - UJVNL W.e.f. 1 December 2023
* Director w.e.f 8 December 2023 upto 29 February 2024
Mr. Suresh Chandra Baluni Nominee Director - UJVNL W.e.f. 1 December 2023
12. Green Valley Renewable Energy Limited - subsidiary of NTPC Green Energy Limited
Mr. Bhupender Gupta Nominee Director - THDCIL W.e.f. 1 December 2023
Mr. Dillip Kumar Patel Chairman W.e.f. 13 February 2023
Mr. A.B Goel Nominee Director - THDCIL W.e.f. 1 December 2023 upto
Mr. Chandan Kumar Mondol Chairman W.e.f 25 August 2022 Upto 29 February 2024
31 January 2023
Mr. Laxmi Prasad Joshi Nominee Director - THDCIL W.e.f. 1 December 2023
Mr. Mohit Bhargava Director W.e.f. 25 August 2022 upto
Mr. Sandeep Kumar Chief Executive Officer W.e.f. 14 December 2023
29 February 2024
Mr. Anand Prakash Bajpai Chief Financial Officer W.e.f. 14 December 2023
Mr. Rajiv Gupta Director W.e.f. 25 August 2022
Ms. Shakshi Negi Company Secretary W.e.f. 14 December 2023
Mr. Raghu Ram Machiraju Director W.e.f. 25 August 2022
Mr. Arup Sarkar Director W.e.f. 25 August 2022 iii) Post Employment Benefit Plans:
Mr. Masood Akhtar Ansari Director W.e.f. 12 March 2024 1. NTPC Limited Employees Provident Fund
Mr. Shailendra Chief Executive Officer W.e.f. 26 March 2024 2. NTPC Employees Gratuity Fund
3. NTPC Post Retirement Employees Medical Benefit Fund
13. TUSCO Limited - Subsidiary of THDC
4. NTPC Limited Defined Contribution Pension Trust
Mr. R K Vishnoi Chairman
5. THDC Employees Provident Fund Trust
Mr. J. Behera Nominee Director-THDCIL Upto 29 February 2024
6. THDCIL Employees Defined Contribution Superannuation Pension Trust
Mr. Atul Jain Nominee Director-THDCIL W.e.f 9 Sept 2023 Upto
31 December 2023 7. THDCIL Post Retirement Medical Facility Fund Trust
Mr. Anupam Shukla Nominee Director-UPNEDA W.e.f. 12 July 2022 8. NEEPCO Employees Provident Fund Trust
Mr. Bhawani Singh Khangarot Nominee Director-UPNEDA Upto 10 June 2022 9. NEEPCO Employees Defined Contribution Superannuation Scheme Trust
Mr. Shailendra Singh Chief Executive Officer Upto 31 July 2022 10. NEEPCO Employees Social Security Scheme Trust
Mr. Mridul Dubey Chief Financial Officer W.e.f. 06 January 2023 11. NEEPCO Employees Group Gratuity Assurance Fund Trust
Mr. K.K.Srivastava Chief Financial Officer Upto 29 August 2022 12. RGPPL Employees Gratuity Fund Trust
Mr. Himanshu Bajpai Company Secretary
iv) Entities under the control of the same government:
Mr Manoj Sardana Chief Executive Officer W.e.f 15 April 2023
The Parent company is a Central Public Sector Undertaking (CPSU) controlled by Central Government by holding
51.10% of paid up share capital (31 March 2022- 51.10%) and is under Ministry of Power. The Group has transactions
14. TREDCO Rajasthan Limited - Subsidiary of THDC
with other Government related entities, which significantly includes but not limited to purchase of fuel (coal, gas)/
Mr. R K Vishnoi Chairman W.e.f. 25 March 2023
oil products, purchase of equipment, spares, receipt of erection, maintenance and other services, rendering
Mr. Lalit Verma Nominee Director - RRECL W.e.f. 25 March 2023 upto consultancy and other services. Transactions with these parties are carried out at market terms and on terms
20 March 2024 comparable to those with other entities that are not Government-related generally through a transparent price
discovery process against open tenders. In few cases of procurement of spares/services from Original Equipment
Mr. Dinesh Kumar Sharma Nominee Director - RRECL W.e.f. 25 March 2023 upto
Manufacturer (OEM) for proprietary items/or on single tender basis are resorted to due to urgency, compatibility
27 April 2023
and similar reasons which are also carried out through a process of negotiation with prices benchmarked against
Mr. Kumar Sharad Nominee Director - THDCIL W.e.f. 25 March 2023 available price data of such items.
Mr. Atul Jain Nominee Director - THDCIL W.e.f. 25 March 2023 upto
v) Others:
31 December 2023
Mr Hari Ram Shah Nominee Director - RRECL W.e.f 28 April 2023 upto 1. NTPC Education and Research Society
20 March 2024 2. NTPC Foundation
Mr Neeraj Verma Nominee Director - THDCIL W.e.f. 23 January 2024
3. SEWA - THDC
Mr Deokinandan Sharma Nominee Director - RRECL W.e.f. 21 March 2024
580 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 581
b) Transactions with the related parties are as follows: ````` Crore c) Outstanding balances with related parties are as follows:
Particulars Joint venture Companies ````` Crore
For the year ended Particulars As at As at
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
i) Sales/purchase of goods and services during the year Amount recoverable towards loans from
- Contracts for works/services for services received by the Group 656.22 1,856.36 - Joint venture companies - 19.78
- Contracts for works/services for services provided by the Group 36.09 24.77 - Key management personnel 1.94 1.68
- Others - 0.60
- Sale/Purchase of goods 450.50 16.65
Amount recoverable other than loans from
ii) Sales/purchase of assets 190.11 2.90
- Joint venture companies 342.65 216.04
iii) Secondment of employees 57.40 55.59
- Post employment benefit plans 44.17 89.62
iv) Dividend received 725.52 1,285.33
- Others 7.99 0.75
v) Equity contributions made 944.91 1,605.52
Others
vi) Investments in Debentures - 600.00
- Joint venture companies - Non convertible debentures 525.00 575.00
vii) Investments redeemed 50.00 25.00 Amount payable to
viii) Interest on loan 2.52 - - Joint venture companies 222.14 336.07
ix) Income on Investments (Debentures) 47.26 28.79 - Post employment benefit plans 102.36 132.20
viii) Guarantees received 29.35 5.66 - Others 0.43 0.30
Guarantee received
Note: Refer Note no. 71 for other commitments with Joint Venture Companies.
- Joint venture companies 354.83 353.95
````` Crore
d) Individually significant transactions
Particulars For the year For the year
````` Crore
ended ended
Particulars Nature of relationship Amount
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
For the year For the year
Transactions with post employment benefit plans
ended ended
- Contributions made during the year 1,020.76 1,113.49 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Compensation to Key management personnel Contracts for works/services for services
received by the Group
- Short term employee benefits 36.31 31.11
Utility Powertech Ltd. Joint venture company 543.62 1,727.38
- Post employment benefits 3.17 2.95
NTPC BHEL Power Projects Private Ltd. Joint venture company 21.31 24.65
- Other long term benefits 2.06 1.89
NTPC-Tamil Nadu Energy Company Ltd. Joint venture company 85.39 -
- Termination benefits 9.28 3.50
NTPC-GE Power Services Private Ltd. Joint venture company 2.35 101.62
- Sitting fee 0.96 1.08
Contracts for works/services for services
Total compensation to key management personnel 51.78 40.53 provided by the Group
NTPC SAIL Power Company Ltd Joint Venture Company 3.54 2.65
````` Crore
Utility Powertech Ltd. Joint Venture Company 2.99 4.21
Particulars For the year For the year
Meja Urja Nigam Private Limited Joint Venture Company 3.78 3.84
ended ended
Aravali Power Company Private Ltd. Joint Venture Company 3.82 3.71
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
NTPC Tamilnadu Energy Company Ltd. Joint Venture Company 3.69 3.90
Transactions with others listed at (a)(v) above
Energy Efficiency Services Ltd. Joint Venture Company 5.39 5.63
- Contracts for works/services for services received by the Group 65.17 62.54
Sale of goods
- Contracts for works/services for services provided by the Group - 0.35
Jhabua Power Limited. Joint Venture Company 448.77 -
582 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 583
````` Crore ````` Crore
Particulars Nature of relationship Amount Particulars Nature of relationship Amount
For the year For the year For the year For the year
ended ended ended ended
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Purchase of goods Secondment of employees
Energy Efficiency Services Ltd. Joint Venture Company 0.47 8.59 Meja Urja Nigam Private Ltd. Joint Venture Company 15.74 16.11
NTPC BHEL Power Projects Private Ltd. Joint Venture Company - 7.31 NTPC-Tamil Nadu Energy Company Ltd. Joint Venture Company 14.57 14.49
Transformers and Electricals Kerala Ltd. Joint Venture Company 0.11 0.18 NTPC-SAIL Power Company Ltd. Joint Venture Company 6.88 6.76
Sale of assets Aravali Power Company Private Ltd. Joint Venture Company 10.88 10.24
NTPC-Tamil Nadu Energy Company Ltd. Joint Venture Company 11.86 - Bangladesh-India Friendship Power Joint Venture Company 5.44 3.49
NTPC-SAIL Power Company Ltd. Joint Venture Company 1.50 - Company Private Ltd.
Purchase of assets Transactions with post employment
benefit plans - Contribution
NTPC BHEL Power Projects Private Ltd. Joint Venture Company 19.88 1.98
NTPC Limited Employees Provident Fund Post employment benefit 335.47 326.80
Transformers and Electricals Kerala Ltd. Joint Venture Company 0.28 0.89
plans
NTPC-GE Power Services Private Ltd. Joint Venture Company 154.70 -
NTPC Limited Defined Contribution Post employment benefit 90.68 273.29
Dividend received
Pension Trust plans
NTPC-SAIL Power Company Ltd. Joint Venture Company 75.00 325.00
NTPC Post Retirement Employees Post employment benefit 267.57 278.44
Aravali Power Company Private Ltd. Joint Venture Company 375.00 475.00 Medical Benefit Fund plans
NTPC-Tamil Nadu Energy Company Ltd. Joint Venture Company 275.21 375.33 NTPC Employees Gratuity Fund Post employment benefit 93.30 (23.18)
NTPC-GE Power Services Private Ltd. Joint Venture Company 0.30 - plans
CIL NTPC Urja Private Ltd. Joint Venture Company 0.01 - THDC Employees Provident Fund Trust Post employment benefit 30.89 46.28
plans
Utility Powertech Ltd. Joint Venture Company - 10.00
THDCIL Employees Defined Contribution Post employment benefit 33.56 40.26
Jhabua Power Limited. Joint Venture Company - 100.00
Superannuation Pension Trust plans
Equity contributions made
NEEPCO Employees’ Provident Fund Trust Post employment benefit 97.07 94.20
Trincomalee Power Company Ltd. Joint Venture Company - 0.44
plans
Meja Urja Nigam Private Ltd. Joint Venture Company 34.44 41.90
NEEPCO Ltd. Employees’ Defined Post employment benefit 37.24 37.43
Bangladesh-India Friendship Power Joint Venture Company 161.99 541.64 Contribution Superannuation Scheme Trust plans
Company Pvt.Ltd.
NEEPCO Employees’ Post Retirement Post employment benefit 25.20 23.01
NTPC-Tamil Nadu Energy Company Ltd. Joint Venture Company - 30.00
Medical Benefit Trust (under NEEPCO plans
Energy Efficiency Services Ltd. Joint Venture Company 383.00 - Employees’ Social Security Scheme Trust)
National High Power Test Laboratory Private Ltd. Joint Venture Company 18.40 - Transactions with others
Jhabua Power Limited. Joint Venture Company - 325.00 NTPC Foundation Others 23.73 20.02
Hindustan Urvarak & Rasayan Ltd. Joint Venture Company 347.03 666.54 NTPC Education and Research Society Others 2.33 13.41
Investments in Debentures NTPC School of Business Others 4.83 7.00
Jhabua Power Limited. Joint Venture Company - 600.00 (under NTPC Education and Research Society)
Interest on Loan SEWA - THDC Others 34.28 22.11
National High Power Test Laboratory Private Ltd. Joint Venture Company 2.52 - Guarantees received
Income on Investments (Debentures) Utility Powertech Ltd. Joint Venture Company - 3.00
Jhabua Power Limited. Joint Venture Company 47.26 28.79 Transformers and Electricals Kerala Ltd. Joint Venture Company 2.36 -
NTPC-GE Power Services Private Ltd. Joint Venture Company 26.99 2.66
584 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 585
e) Individually significant balances ````` Crore
````` Crore
Particulars Nature of relationship As at As at
Particulars Nature of relationship As at As at 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
NEEPCO Employees’ Provident Fund Trust Post employment benefit 8.75 7.81
Amount recoverable towards loans from plans
National High Power Test Laboratory Private Ltd. Joint Venture Company - 19.78 NEEPCO Ltd. Employees’ Defined Post employment benefit 3.05 3.06
Mr. Ujjwal Kanti Bhattacharya Key Management Personnel - 0.05 Contribution Superannuation Scheme Trust plans
Mr Ramesh Babu V. Key Management Personnel - 0.11 NTPC School of Business Others 0.43 0.30
(under NTPC Education and Research Society)
Mr. Arun Kumar Key Management Personnel - 0.31
Guarantees received outstanding
Mr. K Shanmugha Sundaram Key Management Personnel 0.06 -
Utility Powertech Ltd. Joint Venture Company 27.67 28.65
Mr. Ravindra Kumar Key Management Personnel 0.02 -
NTPC BHEL Power Projects Private Ltd. Joint Venture Company 264.79 264.79
NTPC Education and Research Society Others - 0.60
Transformers and Electricals Kerala Ltd. Joint Venture Company 2.36 6.55
Amount recoverable other than loans from
NTPC-GE Power Services Private Ltd. Joint Venture Company 60.01 53.96
NTPC BHEL Power Projects Private Ltd. Joint Venture Company 109.52 112.37
NTPC SAIL Power Company Ltd Joint Venture Company 70.10 75.53
f) Terms and conditions of transactions with the related parties
Aravali Power Company Private Ltd. Joint Venture Company 105.74 16.71
(i) Transactions with the related parties are made on normal commercial terms and conditions and at arm length price.
Meja Urja Nigam Private Ltd. Joint Venture Company 37.93 9.65
(ii) The Company was assigning jobs on contract basis, for sundry works in plants/stations/offices to M/s Utility Powertech
Indian Oil NTPC Green Energy Limited Joint Venture Company 9.49 - Ltd. (UPL), a joint venture of the Company till the previous year ended 31 March 2023. UPL inter-alia undertakes
NTPC Post Retirement Employees Medical Post employment benefit 44.17 (57.78) jobs such as overhauling, repair, refurbishment of various mechanical and electrical equipment of power stations
Benefit Fund plans pursuant to a Power Station Maintenance Agreement with UPL from time to time. The rates were fixed on cost plus
basis after mutual discussion and after taking into account the prevailing market conditions. The transactions reported
NTPC Foundation Others 6.67 0.42
for the year are in respect of assignments awarded till the year 2022-23 having execution period beyond 31 March
SEWA - THDC Others - 0.33
2023. Some of the group companies have entered contracts also during the year with M/s UPL and related transactions
Amount recoverable - others have been included in disclosure above.
Jhabua Power Limited - Debentures Joint Venture Company 525.00 575.00 (iii) The Group is seconding its personnel to Joint venture companies as per the terms and conditions agreed between
Amount payable to the companies, which are similar to those applicable for secondment of employees to other companies and
institutions. The cost incurred by the group towards superannuation and employee benefits are recovered from
Utility Powertech Ltd. Joint Venture Company 47.83 219.21
these companies.
NTPC-Tamil Nadu Energy Company Ltd. Joint Venture Company 58.93 87.89
(iv) Loans granted to joint venture companies are detailed below:
NTPC-GE Power Services Private Ltd. Joint Venture Company 55.65 27.40
Sl. Name of the Loan granted Rate of Repayment schedule Purpose Year of
Jhabua Power Limited. Joint Venture Company 55.30 (1.03)
No. joint venture (Amount in interest grant
NTPC Limited Employees Provident Fund Post employment benefit 0.58 0.89 company ````` crore) (p.a.) of loan
plans
NTPC Limited Defined Contribution Post employment benefit 27.80 20.32 1 National High 18.40 10% Under the Restructuring Scheme For repayment 2019-20#
Pension Trust plans Power Test (quarterly approved by promoters in a meeting of loans /
NTPC Employees Gratuity Fund Post employment benefit 1.47 (88.09) Laboratory rest) held at MOP on 15 September 2022, contractual
Private Ltd. it was agreed that all promoters will obligations
plans
(JV) convert the loan into equity under the
THDC Employees Provident Fund Trust Post employment benefit 2.71 8.10
restructuring plan. Board of Directors
plans
of NTPC in its meeting held on
THDCIL Employees Defined Contribution Post employment benefit 0.45 2.37 11 March 2023 has approved the
Superannuation Pension Trust plans restructuring scheme for NHPTL for
conversion of loan to equity. Further,
THDCIL Post Retirement Medical Benefit Post employment benefit 27.04 9.51
pursuant to agreement entered on
Fund Trust plans
23 April 2024, the shareholding of the
NEEPCO Employees’ Post Retirement Medical Post employment benefit 26.89 22.32
company in the Joint venture will be
Benefit Trust (under NEEPCO Employees’ Social plans
reduced to 12.50%.
Security Scheme Trust)
586 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 587
(v) Consultancy services provided by the Group to Joint venture companies are generally on nomination basis at the (b) Weighted average number of equity shares (used as denominator) (in Nos.)
terms, conditions and principles applicable for consultancy services provided to other parties.
Particulars For the year For the year
(vi) Outstanding balances of joint venture companies at the year-end are unsecured and settlement occurs through ended ended
banking transaction. These balances other than loans are interest free. The Group has not recorded any impairment 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
of receivables relating to amounts owed by related parties. This assessment is undertaken in each financial year
Opening balance of issued equity shares 9,69,66,66,134 9,69,66,66,134
through examining the financial position of the related party and the market in which the related party operates.
Closing balance of issued equity shares 9,69,66,66,134 9,69,66,66,134
vii) Refer Note 71 towards restrictions on disposal of investment and commitment towards further investments in joint
venture companies. Weighted average number of equity shares for Basic and Diluted EPS [D] 9,69,66,66,134 9,69,66,66,134
g) Others
63. Disclosure as per Ind AS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’
The Company has investment of 1.20 crore equity shares of ` 10 each in PTC India Ltd, as disclosed in Note 7- ‘Other
investments’ and is one of the promoters of the Company having 4.05% holding. The Company is of the view that As required by Ind AS 36, an assessment of impairment of assets was carried out and following has been assessed:
provisions of Ind AS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’ are not applicable to the investments made in PTC India Ltd. and the For the Company, the recoverable amount of the property, plant and equipment & intangible assets of the Cash Generating
same has been accounted for as per the provisions of Ind AS 109 ‘Financial Instruments’. During the year, the Company Units (CGU) is value in use and amounts to ````` 3,39,129.52 crore (31 March 2023: ` 2,87,698.56 crore). The net realisable
has transactions towards receipt of dividend of ````` 9.36 crore (31 March 2023: ` 6.96 crore) and receipt of sitting fees for value of the assets of the station has been assessed which is more than its carrying value.
the nominee director amounting to ````` 0.04 crore (31 March 2023: ` 0.10 crore) from PTC India Ltd.
The discount rate used for the computation of value in use for the generating plant (thermal, gas and hydro) is 7.58 % (31
March 2023: 7.27%), coal mining is 7.93 % (31 March 2023: 7.27%) and for solar plant is 7.29 % (31 March 2023: 6.42%).
62. Disclosure as per Ind AS 33 ‘Earnings per Share’
Basic earnings per equity share is computed by dividing the net profit or loss attributable to equity shareholders of the 64. Disclosure as per Ind AS 37 ‘Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets’
Company by the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the financial year.
Movement in provisions: ````` Crore
Diluted earnings per equity share is computed by dividing the net profit or loss attributable to equity shareholders of the
Particulars Provision for Provision for tariff Arbitration awards Mine closure and Total
Company by the weighted average number of equity shares considered for deriving basic earnings per equity share and
obligations incidental adjustment and others Stripping activity
also the weighted average number of equity shares that could have been issued upon conversion of all dilutive potential to land acquisition adjustments
equity shares.
For the year ended For the year ended For the year ended For the year ended For the year ended
The number of equity shares and potentially dilutive equity shares are adjusted retrospectively for all periods presented 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March
for any bonus shares issued during the financial year. 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
Carrying amount at the beginning 2,456.35 2,879.76 817.61 482.28 2,861.03 2,502.99 935.68 616.22 7,070.67 6,481.25
Basic and diluted earnings per equity share are also computed using the net profit or loss amounts excluding the net
of the year
movements in regulatory deferral account balances.
Additions during the year 226.33 243.29 - 335.33 305.23 499.17 149.41 339.02 680.97 1,416.81
Basic and diluted earnings per share attributable to owners of the parent company (in `````)
Amounts used during the year (825.45) (588.74) (16.47) - (398.52) (36.59) - - (1,240.44) (625.33)
Particulars For the year For the year Reversal / adjustments during the year - (77.96) - - (571.32) (104.54) 12.52 - (558.80) (182.50)
ended ended Unwinding of Provisions charged during - - - - - - - (19.56) - (19.56)
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 the year
Carrying amount at the end of the year 1,857.23 2,456.35 801.14 817.61 2,196.42 2,861.03 1,097.61 935.68 5,952.40 7,070.67
From operations including net movement in regulatory deferral account 21.46 17.44
balances (a) [A/D]
i) Provision for obligations incidental to land acquisition
From regulatory deferral account balances (b) [B/D] 1.03 (0.43)
Provision for obligations incidental to land acquisition includes expenditure on rehabilitation & resettlement (R&R)
From operations excluding net movement in regulatory deferral account 20.43 17.87 including the amounts payable to the project affected persons (PAPs) towards land, expenditure for providing
balances (a)-(b) [C/D] community facilities and expenditure in connection with environmental aspects of the project. The Company has
estimated the provision based on the Rehabilitation Action Plan (RAP) approved by the board/competent authority
Nominal value per share 10.00 10.00
or agreements/directions/demand letters of the local/government authorities. The outflow of said provision is
(a) Profit attributable to equity shareholders (used as numerator) ````` Crore expected to be incurred immediately on fulfilment of conditions by the land oustees/receipts of directions of the
local/government authorities.
Particulars For the year For the year
ii) Provision for tariff adjustment
ended ended
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 Billing to beneficiaries is being done based on tariff orders issued under Regulation 2014 except few stations where
billing is done on provisional basis due to non-receipt of tariff orders. In such cases, accounting is done based on
From operations including net movement in regulatory deferral account 20,811.89 16,912.55
trued up cash expenditure as per Regulation 2019. Provision for tariff adjustment of ````` 16.47 crore is mainly towards
balances (a) [A]
reversal of the estimated interest (net) payable to beneficiaries (31 March 2023 towards estimated interest payable
From regulatory deferral account balances (b) [B] 1,000.20 (413.12)
to beneficiaries : ` 335.33 crore) at the time of issue of tariff orders.
From operations excluding net movement in regulatory deferral account 19,811.69 17,325.67
balances (a)-(b) [C]
588 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 589
iii) Provision - Arbitration awards and Others could alter in next financial year. It is impracticable for the group to compute the possible effect of assumptions and
estimates made in recognizing these provisions.
(a) (i) Provision for arbitration awards represents provision created based on awards pronounced by the arbitrator
in respect of various litigation cases amounting to ````` 2,064.12 crore (31 March 2023: ` 2,687.95 crore). viii)Contingent liabilities and contingent assets
These awards have been challenged before various appellate authorities / Courts.
Disclosure with respect to claims against the Group not acknowledged as debts and contingent assets are made in
(ii) Provision for others includes ````` 99.40 crore (31 March 2023: ` 90.79 crore) towards cost of unfinished Note 76.
minimum work programme demanded by the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas (MoP&NG) including
interest thereon in relation to block AA-ONN-2003/2, ````` 5.48 crore (31 March 2023: ` 6.18 crore) towards 65. Disclosure as per Ind AS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’
provision for shortage in property, plant and equipment on physical verification pending investigation and
Research expenditure recognised as expense in the Statement of Profit and Loss during the year is ````` 103.20 crore (31
````` Nil (31 March 2023: ` 12.81 crore) towards expected loss on investments of Provident Fund Trust.
March 2023: ` 236.78 crore).
(b) The Company had entered into an agreement for movement of coal through inland waterways for one of its
stations. After commencement of the operations, the operator had raised several disputes, invoked arbitration 66. Disclosure as per Ind AS 106, ‘Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources’
and raised substantial claims on the Company. The Arbitral Tribunal had awarded a claim of ` 1,891.09 crore
A. Oil and gas exploration activities
plus applicable interest in favour of the operator, during the financial year 2018-19. Based on the interim arbitral
award and subsequent directions of the Hon’ble Delhi High Court and Hon’ble Supreme Court of India, an a) The Company has joint arrangements with others for operations in the nature of joint operations. The Company recognizes,
amount of ` 356.31 crore was paid to Operator upto 31 March 2019 and an amount of ` 500 crore was deposited on a line-by-line basis its share of the assets, liabilities and expenses of these joint operations as per the terms and
with the Delhi High Court in November 2019, which was subsequently released to the Operator, on submission conditions of respective arrangements.
of bank guarantee.
All exploration costs incurred in drilling and equipping exploratory and appraisal wells, cost of drilling exploratory type
Hon’ble High Court directed the parties to commence formal handing over of the infrastructure in the presence stratigraphic test wells are initially capitalized as ‘Exploratory wells-in-progress’ under ‘Intangible assets under
of appointed Local Commissioner which could not commence due to various local and operator’s issues. Date development’ till the time these are either transferred to oil and gas assets when a well is ready for commercial production
of hearing at Hon’ble High Court of Delhi has been adjourned several times and now the date of next hearing or expensed as exploration cost (including allocated depreciation) as and when determined to be dry or of no further
has been fixed on 24 and 25 July 2024. use, as the case may be.
Pending final disposal of the appeal by the Hon’ble High Court, considering the provisions of Ind AS 37 ‘Provisions, Costs of exploratory wells are not carried over unless it could be reasonably demonstrated that there are indications of
Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets’ and material accounting policies of the Company, provision has sufficient quantity of reserves and sufficient progress is being made in assessing the reserves and the economic & operating
been updated by interest to ````` 38.59 crore (31 March 2023: ` 38.42 crore) (included at (a)(i) above) and an viability of the project. All such carried over costs are subject to review for impairment.
amount of ````` 1,870.55 crore (31 March 2023: ` 2,431.04 crore) has been considered as contingent liability.
Cost of surveys and prospecting activities conducted in the search of oil and gas are expensed in the year in which these
Further, the amount deposited with Delhi high court has been reviewed during the year and as an abundant
are incurred.
precaution, the amount deposited has been fully provided for, conservatively.
(i) The Company along-with some public sector undertakings had entered into Production Sharing Contracts (PSCs)
Also Refer Note 74 and 76.
with GOI for three oil exploration blocks namely KG-OSN-2009/1, KG-OSN-2009/4 and AN-DWN-2009/13 under VIII
(iv) (a) Provision for Mine closure obligation represents Company’s obligations for land reclamation and round of New Exploration Licensing Policy (NELP VIII) with 10% participating interest (PI) in each of the blocks.
decommissioning of structure consist of spending at mines in accordance with the guidelines from Ministry of
In the case of Block AN-DWN-2009/13 and KG-OSN-2009/1, Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Ltd. (ONGC) was the
Coal, Government of India. The Company estimates its obligations for mine closure, site restoration and
operator and the Company along-with the consortium partners have relinquished both the blocks to Directorate
decommissioning based on the detailed calculation and technical assessment of the amount and timing of
General of Hydrocarbons (DGH).
future cash spending for the required work and provided for as per approved mine closure plan. Accordingly, a
Based on the un-audited statement of the accounts for the above blocks forwarded by ONGC, the operator, the
provision amounting to ````` 494.01 crore (31 March 2023: ` 323.80 crore) has since been provided for.
Company’s share in the assets and liabilities and expenses is as under:
(b) Provision for Expenditure incurred on removal of mine waste materials (overburden) necessary to extract the ````` Crore
coal reserves is referred to as stripping cost. The Company has to incur such expenses over the life of the mine
Particulars As at As at
as technically estimated. Cost of stripping is charged on technically evaluated average stripping ratio at each
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
mine with due adjustment for stripping activity asset and ratio-variance account after the mines are brought to
(Unaudited) (Unaudited)
revenue. Net of the balances of stripping activity asset and ratio variance at the Balance Sheet date is shown as
‘Stripping activity adjustment’ under the head ‘Non-current assets/Non-current provisions’ as the case may be, Assets 0.01 0.01
and adjusted as provided in the CERC Tariff Regulations. Accordingly, a provision amounting to ````` 603.60 crore
Liabilities 0.49 0.49
(31 March 2023: ` 611.88 crore) has since been provided for. (Refer material accounting policy C.6)
For the year ended 31 March 2024 and 31 March 2023, there are no income / expense and operating/investing cash
v) In respect of provision for cases under litigation, outflow of economic benefits is dependent upon the final outcome
flow from exploration activities, an amount of ` 0.08 crore paid during the year to the operator towards license fee.
of such cases.
For exploration activities in block KG-OSN-2009/4 DGH has agreed for drilling of one well and have instructed to
vi) In all these cases, outflow of economic benefits is expected within next one year.
carry out airborne Full Tensor Gravity Gradiometer (FTG) survey in conditionally & partial cleared area. ONGC has
vii) Sensitivity of estimates on provisions completed drilling of one well. Airborne Full Tensor Gravity Gradiometer (FTG) survey work is also completed. The
Company along-with the consortium partners has decided to relinquish the block and Oil and Natural Gas Corporation
The assumptions made for provisions relating to current period are consistent with those in the earlier years. The
Ltd. (ONGC), the operator, has submitted an application to Directorate General of Hydrocarbons (DGH) in this regard,
assumptions and estimates used for recognition of such provisions are qualitative in nature and their likelihood
in the earlier years.
590 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 591
b) Exploration activities in the block AA-ONN-2003/2 were abandoned in January 2011 due to unforeseen geological Once the proved reserves are determined and development of mine/project is sanctioned, Exploration and evaluation
conditions and withdrawal of the operator. Attempts to reconstitute the consortium to accomplish the residual exploratory assets are transferred to ‘Development of Coal Mines’ under ‘Capital Work in Progress’. However, if proved reserves are
activities did not yield result. In the meanwhile, Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas, GoI demanded in January 2011 the not determined, exploration and evaluation asset is derecognized. Exploration and evaluation expenditure incurred
cost of unfinished minimum work programme from the consortium with NTPC’s share being USD 7.516 million. During prior to obtaining the mining right or the legal right to explore are expensed as and when incurred.
the year, provision in this respect has been updated to ````` 99.49 crore from ` 90.79 crore along-with interest. The Company
(i) The Company has started coal production from five captive mines i.e Pakri-Barwadih, Dulanga, Talaipalli, Chatti-
has sought waiver of the claim citing force majeure conditions at site leading to discontinuation of exploratory activities.
Bariatu and Kerandari. During the year, Mine Development Operator (MDO) has been appointed for Badam Mines.
The Company has accounted for expenditure of ````` 8.70 crore (31 March 2023: ` (21.37) crore) towards updation of Pakri Barwadih was declared commercial w.e.f. 1 April 2019 and about 16.31 MMT coal was extracted during the
liabilities relating to MWP and other liabilities of M/s Geopetrol International, the operator to complete the winding up current year. Dulanga was declared commercial w.e.f. 1 October 2020 and 7.00 MMT coal was extracted during the
activities of the Block. The Company’s share in the assets and liabilities are as under: current year. Talaipalli was declared commercial w.e.f. 1 October 2023 and 7.54 MT of coal was extracted during the
````` Crore year. Chatti-Bariatu , Kerandari and Badam mines are under development stage and expenditure incurred at these
mines are disclosed in Note 3 - Capital work in progress under ‘Development of coal mines’. During the year 3.30
Particulars As at As at
MMT of coal was extracted from Chatti-Bariatu and 0.235 MMT of coal from Kerendari.
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
(Unaudited) (Unaudited) In respect of Talaipalli coal mine, there was a delay of 22.5 months in the commercial declaration of the mine. The
revised Mining plan for Talaipalli Coal Mine, as recommended by CMPDIL was approved by CCO (Coal Controller
Assets 9.19 9.19
Organization) on 26 September 2023. The Company has filed a petition for determination of tariff for the coal mine
Liabilities (including unfinished MWP) 115.14 106.44
and condoning the delay as provided in Regulation 22 of the CERC (Terms and Conditions of Tariff) (Second
Provision of ````` 8.96 crore as at 31 March 2024 (31 March 2023: ` 8.96 crore) has been made towards the assets under Amendment) Regulations 2021, which is yet to be disposed off.
exploration and estimated obsolescence in the inventory. Further, a provision of ````` Nil (31 March 2023: ` 0.23 crore) has Development activities are under process for Banhardih mine, allocated to Patratu Vidyut Utapadan Nigam Ltd.
been made towards NTPC’s share as per arbitration decision given in favor of a contractor of the block. Against this, an (PVUNL), a subsidiary company incorporated between NTPC & Government of Jharkhand.
amount of ` 13.65 crore has been deposited in honourable Delhi high court during the year. NTPC filed a writ petition
During the year, NTPC Mining Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary, emerged as successful bidder in e-auction of
under section 34 of Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 in this matter before Hon’ble Delhi High Court which is yet to
commercial coal block of North Dadhu (East) declared by Ministry of Coal (MoC). Pre-development activities are
be disposed.
under progress.
For the year ended 31 March 2024 and 31 March 2023, there are no income and operating/investing cash flow from
(ii) Surrendered coal blocks- Banai,Bhalumuda and Mandakini-B
exploration activities. The value of assets reported above is based on statement received from the operator in the earlier
years. Due to geo-mining constraints and other related issues NTPC surrendered Banai and Bhalumuda blocks to MoC on
26.12.2020. The Company expects that whenever these two coal blocks are allotted to any other company, the cost
c) The Company had entered into production sharing contracts (PSC) with GOI for exploration block namely CB-ONN-2009/
incurred towards exploration and GR at these mines would be reimbursed from the new allocatee through MOC as
5 VIII round of New Exploration Licensing Policy (NELP VIII) with 100% participating interest (PI) in the block.
per past experience of the Company. Keeping in view the above, an amount of ````` 124.00 crore (31 March 2023:
MWP for the block has been completed. No oil or gas of commercial value was observed in any of the wells. Accordingly, ` 124.00 crore) has been accounted as recoverable and included under Note-19- ‘Current assets - Other financial
the block has been relinquished to DGH, GOI. assets’. These coal blocks have been allotted to another entity in the commercial coal mine auction notified by MoC.
Company’s share in assets and liabilities is as under: Execution of coal mine development and production agreement between MoC and the entity is in progress.
````` Crore Subsequent to execution of the agreement, the recovery of the above amount from the new allottee shall be initiated
by MoC before issuance of formal vesting order for which the Company has requested MoC for the same.
Particulars As at As at
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 Since mine development activities could not be proceeded due to various issues at Mandakini-B coal block, the
Company has approached Ministry of Coal on 26 December 2020 for surrendering these blocks, with a request for
Assets 6.11 6.11
consideration of reimbursement of expenses incurred by the Company. The Company expects that whenever these
Liabilities 0.25 0.25 two coal blocks are allotted to any other company, the cost incurred towards exploration and GR would be reimbursed
from the new allocatee through MOC as per past experience of the Company. Keeping in view the above, an amount
Provision of ````` 6.07 crore as at 31 March 2024 (31 March 2023: ` 6.07 crore) has been made as at the balance sheet date,
of ````` 56.47 crore (31 March 2023: ` 56.47 crore) has been accounted as recoverable and included under Note-19
towards estimated obsolescence in the inventory.
‘Current assets -Other financial assets’.
For the year ended 31 March 2024 and 31 March 2023, there are no income, expenses, operating and investing cash
MoC has encashed the BG (Performance Security) of ` 168.00 crore on 22 March 2021, submitted by the Company
flows from exploration activities.
for Mandakini-B coal block, citing delay in achieving of the milestones of efficiency parameters which were beyond
B. Coal mining exploration activities the control of the Company. The Company approached MoP to take up the matter in Alternate Mechanism for
Resolution of CPSE Disputes (AMRCD). Pending resolution of the dispute through AMRCD, the amount of BG encashed
Exploration and evaluation assets comprise capitalized costs which is generally the expenditure incurred associated with
by MOC has been disclosed as recoverable from MOC under ‘Claims recoverable’ in Note-19-’Current assets-Other
finding the mineral by carrying out topographical, geological, geochemical and geophysical studies, exploratory drilling,
financial assets’. This issue is regularly being taken up with MoC by the Company and MoP for early settlement.
trenching, sampling, expenditure for activities in relation to evaluation of technical feasibility and commercial viability,
acquisition of rights to explore etc. The Coal Block Development and Production Agreement (CBDPA) signed by the Company with MOC is silent about
the recoverability of expenditure incurred in case of termination of the CBDPA. Moreover, the fresh auction / allocation
Exploration and evaluation expenditure incurred after obtaining the mining right or the legal right to explore are capitalized
of mines by MOC may also take substantial time and is dependent upon the coal demand-supply scenario of the
as exploration and evaluation assets under ‘Intangible assets under development’ and stated at cost less impairment if
country in the days to come. Considering the uncertainty involved on the recoverability of the amounts in respect of
any. Exploration and evaluation assets are assessed for impairment indicators at least annually.
592 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 593
Banai, Bhalamuda and Mandakini-B coal blocks, the amount disclosed as claims recoverable has since been fully The following summary describes the operations in each of the Group’s reportable segments:
provided for. Further, the balance expenditure incurred at these blocks which may not be recovered has also been
Generation of energy: Generation and sale of bulk power to State Power Utilities.
provided for fully (Refer Note 5- ‘Non-current assets - Intangible assets under development’).
Others: It includes providing consultancy, project management & supervision, energy trading, oil and gas exploration
(iii) Assets and liabilities of coal exploration and evaluation activities are as under:
and coal mining.
````` Crore
Information regarding the results of each reportable segment is included below. Performance is measured based on
Particulars As at As at
segment profit before income tax, as included in the internal management reports that are reviewed by the Board of
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Directors. Segment profit is used to measure performance as management believes that such information is the most
Assets (Intangible assets under development) - 85.13 relevant in evaluating the results of certain segments relative to other entities that operate within these industries.
Liabilities - 0.11
Transfer prices between operating segments are on an arm’s length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third
Exploration and evaluation activities were taking place at under ground mine area/dip side area (North west quarry) parties.
of PB block which has since been completed and capitalised.
B. Information about reportable segments and reconciliations to amounts reflected in the financial statements:
For the year ended 31 March 2024 and 31 March 2023, there are no income, expenses and operating cash flows
````` Crore
from coal exploration activities. Cash flows from investing activities for the year ended 31 March 2024 is (-) ````` 85.02
crore (31 March 2023: ` (50.47) crore) Particulars Generation of energy Others Inter-segment Total
eliminations
(iv) In respect of captive mines, book stock of coal is considered in the accounts where the variance between book stock
For the year ended For the year ended For the year ended For the year ended
and measured stock is upto +/- 5% and in cases where the variance is beyond +/- 5% the measured stock is considered.
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March
(v) The Company had incorporated a wholly owned subsidiary, in the name of ‘NTPC Mining Limited’ (NML) on 29
2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
August 2019, for taking up coal mining business. The Board of Directors of the Company has approved the hiving-off
Segment revenue
its coal mining business, consisting of 6 coal mines of the Company to NML at book value, through a business
Revenue from external customers* 1,67,232.58 1,65,709.64 9,409.13 8,274.47 - - 1,76,641.71 1,73,984.11
transfer agreement (BTA) dated 17 August 2023. The BTA shall become effective upon completion of the conditions
precedent mentioned in the BTA. The transfer is yet to take place as at 31 March 2024. Inter-segment revenue 3,249.44 2,594.92 5,655.36 4,035.13 (8,904.80) (6,630.05) - -
1,70,482.02 1,68,304.56 15,064.49 12,309.60 (8,904.80) (6,630.05) 1,76,641.71 1,73,984.11
67. Disclosure as per Ind AS 108 ‘Operating segments’
Other income 3,710.09 3,523.56 194.60 286.26 (10.89) (3.52) 3,893.80 3,806.30
A. General Information 1,74,192.11 1,71,828.12 15,259.09 12,595.86 (8,915.69) (6,633.57) 1,80,535.51 1,77,790.41
The Group has two reportable segments, as described below, which are the Group’s strategic business units. The strategic Unallocated corporate interest and 630.35 185.98
business units offer different products and services, and are managed separately because they require different technology other income
and marketing strategies. For each of the strategic business units, the Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM) reviews Total 1,74,192.11 1,71,828.12 15,259.09 12,595.86 (8,915.69) (6,633.57) 1,81,165.86 1,77,976.39
internal management reports on at least a quarterly basis. Segment result (including net movements 37,228.67 33,128.18 925.28 1,097.94 - - 38,153.95 34,226.12
in regulatory deferral account balances)**
Segment results that are reported to the CODM include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can
be allocated on a reasonable basis. Unallocated items comprise mainly corporate expenses, finance costs, income tax Unallocated corporate interest and other 630.35 185.98
income
expenses and corporate income that are not directly attributable to segments.
Unallocated corporate expenses, interest 12,064.06 11,367.08
Revenue directly attributable to the segments is considered as segment revenue. Expenses directly attributable to the
and finance charges
segments and common expenses allocated on a reasonable basis are considered as segment expenses.
Profit before share of net profits of 26,720.24 23,045.02
Segment capital expenditure is the total cost incurred during the period to acquire property, plant and equipment, investments accounted for using equity
Capital Wok in Progress, intangible assets other than goodwill and intangible assets under development. method and tax
Segment assets comprise property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, capital work in progress, intangible assets Add: Share of net profits of joint ventures 1,635.60 779.77
accounted for using equity method
under development, advances for capital expenditures, trade and other receivables, inventories and other assets that
can be directly or reasonably allocated to segments. For the purpose of segment reporting, property, plant and equipment Profit before tax 28,355.84 23,824.79
have been allocated to segments based on the extent of usage of assets for operations attributable to the respective Income tax expense (including tax on net 7,023.39 6,703.44
segments. Unallocated assets comprise investments, income tax assets, corporate assets and other assets that cannot movements in regulatory deferral account
reasonably be allocated to segments. balances)
Profit after tax 21,332.45 17,121.35
Segment liabilities include all operating liabilities in respect of a segment and consist principally of trade payable, payable
for capital expenditure and other payables, provision for employee benefits and other provisions. Unallocated liabilities
comprise equity, income tax liabilities, loans and borrowings and other liabilities and provisions that cannot reasonably
be allocated to segments.
594 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 595
````` Crore ````` Crore
Particulars Generation of energy Others Total Particulars As at As at
For the year ended For the year ended For the year ended 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March Segment liabilities(A) 66,045.57 63,652.14
2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
Unallocated corporate and other liabilities:
Depreciation, amortisation and 15,893.09 14,531.79 155.41 100.45 16,048.50 14,632.24
Non current borrowings 1,90,214.97 1,87,883.57
impairment expense
Non-cash expenses other than 847.43 712.93 47.78 11.00 895.21 723.93 Deferred tax liability 15,231.83 12,690.00
depreciation and amortisation Borrowings current 44,825.33 33,208.80
Capital expenditure 33,478.49 44,680.69 1,545.01 1,299.59 35,023.50 45,980.28
Current tax liabilities (net) 2.95 86.47
Other unallocable liabilities 3,166.65 3,369.10
````` Crore
Total unallocated corporate and other liabilities (B) 2,53,441.73 2,37,237.94
Particulars Generation of energy Others Inter-segment Total
eliminations Total Liabilities (A+B) 3,19,487.30 3,00,890.08
As at As at As at As at
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March Reconciliation of profit after tax ````` Crore
2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 Particulars For the year For the year
Segment assets 4,38,046.42 4,10,768.54 18,912.62 15,641.63 (593.75) (96.21) 4,56,365.29 4,26,313.96 ended ended
Unallocated corporate and other assets 23,831.28 21,599.29 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Total assets 4,38,046.42 4,10,768.54 18,912.62 15,641.63 (593.75) (96.21) 4,80,196.57 4,47,913.25 Segment result (including net movements in regulatory deferral account 38,153.95 34,226.12
Segment liabilities 59,238.11 57,083.58 7,401.21 6,664.77 (593.75) (96.21) 66,045.57 63,652.14 balances) (A)
Unallocated corporate and other liabilities 2,53,441.73 2,37,237.94 Unallocated corporate interest and other income (B)
Total liabilities 59,238.11 57,083.58 7,401.21 6,664.77 (593.75) (96.21) 3,19,487.30 3,00,890.08
Other Income 630.35 185.98
* Generation segment includes ````` 2,281.34 crore (31 March 2023: ` 1,995.90 crore) for sales related to earlier years
Sub-total (B) 630.35 185.98
excluding other adjustments towards reimbursement of ash transportation cost.(Refer Note 42).
Unallocated corporate expenses, interest and finance costs (C)
** Generation segment result would have been ````` 34,947.33 crore (31 March 2023: ` 31,132.28 crore) without including
Finance costs 12,048.21 11,156.06
the sales related to earlier years as stated above.
Other expenses 15.85 211.02
Reconciliation of Assets and Liabilities ````` Crore
Sub total (C) 12,064.06 11,367.08
Particulars As at As at
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 Profit before tax (including net movements in regulatory deferral account 26,720.24 23,045.02
balances) [D=(A+B-C)]
Segment assets (A) 4,56,365.29 4,26,313.96
Exceptional items -
Unallocated corporate and other assets:
Share of net profits of joint ventures accounted for using equity method (E) 1,635.60 779.77
Non current investments 15,834.56 13,884.79
Profit before tax (F=D+E) 28,355.84 23,824.79
Current investments 50.00 50.00
Income tax expense (including tax on net movements in regulatory 7,023.39 6,703.44
Cash and cash equivalents and other bank balances 3,256.05 2,673.92
deferral account balances) (G)
Loans 222.49 215.81
Profit after tax ( H=F-G) 21,332.45 17,121.35
Other current assets 270.36 125.13
The operations of the Group are mainly carried out within the country and therefore there is no reportable geographical
Advance tax (net of provision) 2,395.26 2,631.13 segment.
Other unallocable assets 1,802.56 2,018.51 C. Information about geographical areas
Total unallocated corporate and other assets (B) 23,831.28 21,599.29 Segment revenue - Others include export sale of energy through trading amounting to ````` 1,376.86 crore (31 March 2023:
` 1,275.80 crore) to Nepal and Bangladesh by M/s NVVN Ltd., a subsidiary of the Company.
Total Assets (A+B) 4,80,196.57 4,47,913.25
596 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 597
D. Information about major customers 68. Financial Risk Management
Revenue from customers under ‘Generation of energy’ segment which is more than 10% of the Group’s total revenues, Credit risk
are as under :
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its
Name of the customer For the year ended contractual obligations resulting in a financial loss to the Group. Credit risk arises principally from trade receivables,
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 unbilled revenue, loans, cash and cash equivalents and deposits with banks and financial institutions.
Amount %age Amount %age Trade receivables & unbilled revenue
(````` Crore) (` Crore) 2023
The Group primarily sells electricity to bulk customers comprising mainly state utilities owned by State Governments.
Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Ltd. 17,562.95 9.84 18,543.55 10.52
The Company has a robust payment security mechanism in the form of Letters of Credit (LC) backed by the Tri-Partite
Agreement (TPA). The TPAs were signed among the Govt. of India, RBI and the individual State Governments subsequent
68. Financial Risk Management to the issuance of the One Time Settlement Scheme of SEBs dues during 2001-02 by the GOI, which were valid till
October 2016. Govt of India subsequently approved the extension of these TPAs for another period of 10 years. Most of
The Group’s principal financial liabilities comprise loans and borrowings in foreign as well as domestic currency, trade
the States have signed these extended TPAs and signing is in progress for the balance states.
payables and other payables. The main purpose of these financial liabilities is to finance the Group’s operations. The
Group’s principal financial assets include loans, trade and other receivables, and cash and short-term deposits that CERC Tariff Regulations allow payment against monthly bill towards energy charges within a period of forty five days
derive directly from its operations. The Group also holds equity investments and enter into derivative contracts such as from the date of bill and levy of surcharge @ 18% p.a. on delayed payment beyond forty five days. On 22 February 2021,
forward contracts, options and swaps. Derivatives are used exclusively for hedging purposes and not as trading or Ministry of power has issued a notification and accordingly Late Payment Surcharge (LPSC) shall be payable on the
speculative instruments. payment outstanding after the due date at the base rate of LPSC applicable for the period for the first month of default
and the rate of LPSC for the successive months of default shall increase by 0.5 percent for every month of delay provided
The Group is exposed to the following risks from its use of financial instruments:- Credit risk- Liquidity risk- Market risk
that the LPSC shall not be more than 3 percent higher than the base rate at any time.
This note presents information about the Group’s exposure to each of the above risks, the Group’s objectives, policies
A default occurs when in the view of management there is no significant possibility of recovery of receivables after
and processes for measuring and managing risk.
considering all available options for recovery.
Risk Exposure arising from Measurement Management
As per the provisions of the TPA, the customers are required to establish LC covering 105% of the average monthly billing
Credit Risk Trade receivables, unbilled revenue, Ageing analysis Credit limits, letters of credit
of the Company for last 12 months. The TPA also provided that if there is any default in payment of current dues by any
derivative financial instruments, Credit ratings and diversification of bank
State Utility the outstanding dues can be deducted from the State’s RBI account and paid to the concerned CPSU. There
financial assets measured at amortised deposits.
is also provision of regulation of power by the Group in case of non payment of dues and non-establishment of LC.
cost and cash and cash equivalents.
In addition to above, MoP vide its communications dated 28 June 2019 and subsequent clarifications, further emphasised
Liquidity risk Borrowings and other liabilities Rolling cash flows Availability of committed
on ensuring availability of suitable payment security mechanism to be maintained by DISCOMs. Further, to liquidate the
forecast credit lines and borrowing
outstanding dues of the discoms towards the generating companies, GOI has announced a Scheme for offering 90,000
facilities
crore in soft loans under the Aatmanirbhar Bharat package. The Discoms are expected to take the benefit of the this
Market risk – -Future commercial transactions Cash flow Forward foreign exchange
Scheme and pay their outstanding dues.
foreign currency -Recognised financial assets and forecasting contracts
These payment security mechanisms have served the Group well over the years. The Group has not experienced any
risk liabilities not denominated in Foreign currency options
significant impairment losses in respect of trade receivables in the past years. Since the Group has its power stations as
Indian rupee (`) Currency and interest rate
well as customers spread over various states of India, geographically there is no concentration of credit risk.
swaps and principal only swaps
Market risk – Non-current borrowings at Sensitivity analysis Different kinds of loan Unbilled revenue primarily relates to the Group’s right to consideration for sale effected but not billed at the reporting
interest rate risk variable rates arrangements with varied date and have substantially the same risk characteristics as the trade receivables for the same type of contracts.
terms (e.g. fixed rate loans,
Investments
floating rate loans, rupee term
The Group limits its exposure to credit risk by investing in only Government of India Securities, State Government Securities
loans, foreign currency loans, etc.)
and other counterparties have a high credit rating. The management actively monitors the interest rate and maturity
Risk management framework period of these investments. The Group does not expect the counterparty to fail to meet its obligations, and has not
experienced any significant impairment losses in respect of any of the investments.
The Group’s activities make it susceptible to various risks. The Group has taken adequate measures to address such
concerns by developing adequate systems and practices. Loans
In order to institutionalize the risk management in the Group, an elaborate Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) framework The Group has given loans to employees, joint venture companies and other parties. Loans to the employee are secured
has been developed. The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the parent against the mortgage of the house properties and hypothecation of vehicles for which such loans have been given in line
company’s risk management framework. As a part of the implementation of ERM framework, a ‘Risk Management with the policies of the Company. The loan provided to group companies are collectible in full and risk of default is
Committee (RMC)’ with functional directors as its members has been entrusted with the responsibility to identify and negligible. Loan to APIIC is against a guarantee given by the Government of Andhra Pradesh vide GO dated 3 April 2003.
review the risks, formulate action plans and strategies to mitigate risks on short-term as well as long-term basis.
Cash and cash equivalents
The RMC meets every quarter to deliberate on strategies. Risks are regularly monitored through reporting of key
The Group held cash and cash equivalents of ````` 863.34 crore (31 March 2023: ` 465.65 crore). The cash and cash equivalents
performance indicators. Outcomes of RMC are submitted for information of the Board of Directors.
are held with banks with high rating.
598 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 599
Deposits with banks and financial institutions (iv) Reconciliation of impairment loss provisions
The Group held deposits with banks and financial institutions of ````` 5,984.00 crore (31 March 2023: ` 4,482.88 crore). In The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of financial assets during the year was as follows:
order to manage the risk, Group places deposits with only high rated banks/institutions. ````` Crore
(i) Exposure to credit risk Particulars Investments Trade Loans Advances Claims Total
receivables recoverable
The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure. The maximum exposure to credit risk
at the reporting date was: Balance as at 1 April 2022 (i) 4.48 479.45 - 0.11 346.78 830.82
````` Crore Impairment loss recognised (ii) - 82.27 6.77 - 2.54 91.58
Particulars As at As at Amounts written off / written back / - - - - - -
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 adjustment during the period (iii)
Balance as at 31 March 2023 (iv=i+ii-iii) 4.48 561.72 6.77 0.11 349.32 922.40
Financial assets for which loss allowance is measured
using 12 months Expected Credit Losses (ECL) Impairment loss recognised (v) - 12.39 12.39
Non-current investments 703.60 632.70 Amounts written off / written back / - 303.15 6.77 - 309.92
adjustment during the period (vi)
Non-current loans 570.19 553.77
Balance as at 31 March 2024 (vii=iv+v-vi) 4.48 258.57 - 0.11 361.71 624.87
Other non-current financial assets 710.80 900.70
Current investments 50.00 50.00 Based on historic default rates, the Group believes that no impairment allowance is necessary in respect of any other
financial assets as the amounts of such allowances are not significant.
Cash and cash equivalents 863.34 465.65
Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents 5,984.00 4,482.88 68. Financial Risk Management
Current loans 271.12 268.78 Liquidity risk
Other current financial assets* 2,220.06 1,605.64 Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting the obligations associated with its financial
Total (A) 11,373.11 8,960.12 liabilities that are settled by delivering cash or another financial asset. The Group’s approach to managing liquidity is to
ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal
Financial assets for which loss allowance is measured using Life time
and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Group’s reputation.
Expected Credit Losses (ECL) as per simplified approach
The Group has an appropriate liquidity risk management framework for the management of short, medium and long
Trade receivables including unbilled revenue 34,637.22 32,751.09
term funding and liquidity management requirements. The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate cash
Contract Assets 10,992.65 7,306.43
reserves, banking facilities and reserve borrowing facilities by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows
Total (B) 45,629.87 40,057.52
and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities.
Total (A+B) 57,002.98 49,017.64 The Group’s treasury department is responsible for managing the short term and long term liquidity requirements of the
Group. Short term liquidity situation is reviewed daily by Treasury department. The Board of directors has established
* Excluding Contract Assets (Refer Note 19)
policies to manage liquidity risk and the Group’s treasury department operates in line with such policies. Any breaches
(ii) Provision for expected credit losses of these policies are reported to the Board of Directors. Long term liquidity position is reviewed on a regular basis by the
Board of Directors and appropriate decisions are taken according to the situation.
(a) Financial assets for which loss allowance is measured using 12 month expected credit losses
Typically the Group ensures that it has sufficient cash on demand to meet expected operational expenses for a month,
The Group has assets where the counter-parties have sufficient capacity to meet the obligations and where the risk including the servicing of financial obligations, this excludes the potential impact of extreme circumstances that cannot
of default is very low. Accordingly, no loss allowance for impairment has been recognised. reasonably be predicted, such as natural disasters.
(b) Financial assets for which loss allowance is measured using life time expected credit losses as per simplified As part of the CERC regulations, tariff inter alia includes recovery of capital cost. The tariff regulations also provide for
approach recovery of energy charges, operations and maintenance expenses and interest on normative working capital
requirements. Since billing to the customers are generally on a monthly basis, the Group maintains sufficient liquidity to
The Group has customers (State government utilities) with capacity to meet the obligations and therefore the risk of
service financial obligations and to meet its operational requirements.
default is negligible or nil. Further, management believes that the unimpaired amounts that are past due by more
than 30 days are still collectible in full, based on historical payment behaviour and extensive analysis of customer (i) Financing arrangements
credit risk. Hence, no impairment loss has been recognised during the reporting periods in respect of trade receivables
The Group had access to the following undrawn borrowing facilities at the end of the reporting period: ````` Crore
and unbilled revenue.
Particulars As at As at
(iii) Ageing analysis of trade receivables
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Refer Note 15(g) Floating-rate borrowings
Cash credit 6,274.93 4,758.50
Term loans 17,526.81 24,232.99
Foreign currency loans 7,041.61 3,309.60
Total 30,843.35 32,301.09
600 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 601
(ii) Maturities of financial liabilities The Board of directors is responsible for setting up of policies and procedures to manage market risks of the Group. All
such transactions are carried out within the guidelines set by the risk management committee.
The following are the contractual maturities of derivative and non-derivative financial liabilities (un-discounted), based
on contractual cash flows: Currency risk
31 March 2024 ````` Crore The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on certain transactions that are denominated in a currency other than
Contractual maturities of financial liabilities Contractual cash flows entity’s functional currency, hence exposure to exchange rate fluctuations arises. The risk is that the functional currency
value of cash flows will vary as a result of movements in exchange rates.
3 months 3-12 1-2 2-5 More than Total
or less months years years 5 years The currency profile of financial assets and financial liabilities as at 31 March 2024 and 31 March 2023 are as below:
Non-derivative financial liabilities 31 March 2024 ````` Crore
Secured bonds 561.15 6,526.08 1,741.34 9,564.84 16,419.16 34,812.57
Particulars USD EURO JPY Others Total
Unsecured bonds 2,108.92 407.52 5,500.00 3,000.00 16,513.00 27,529.44
Financial assets
Rupee term loans from banks 1,592.45 6,323.56 8,582.56 30,556.43 48,152.59 95,207.59
Trade and other receivables 4.97 - - - 4.97
Rupee term loans from others - 238.75 547.00 2,964.17 7,822.60 11,572.52
Total 4.97 - - - 4.97
Lease obligations 171.72 110.56 131.81 401.75 4,943.17 5,759.01
Financial liabilities
Foreign currency notes 3,911.51 4,240.85 4,197.50 7,933.50 - 20,283.36
Foreign currency bonds 15,686.90 4,596.47 - - 20,283.37
Unsecured foreign currency loans 408.78 821.65 826.33 13,945.02 9,622.53 25,624.31
Unsecured foreign currency loans from 9,742.38 3,719.25 15,181.95 - 28,643.58
from banks and financial institutions
banks and financial institutions
Unsecured foreign currency loans 132.92 251.28 336.20 870.70 1,428.17 3,019.27
Trade payables and other financial liabilities 3,528.51 1,303.63 92.54 2.09 4,926.77
(guaranteed by GOI)
Total 28,957.79 9,619.35 15,274.49 2.09 53,853.72
Commercial paper, cash credit and 15,490.00 4,800.00 - - - 20,290.00
Short term working capital loan 31 March 2023 ` Crore
Trade and other payables 33,662.67 7,559.13 340.77 278.02 399.26 42,239.85 Particulars USD EURO JPY Others Total
Financial assets
31 March 2023 ` Crore
Trade and other receivables 1.22 - - - 1.22
Contractual maturities of financial liabilities Contractual cash flows
Total 1.22 - - - 1.22
3 months 3-12 1-2 2-5 More than Total
Financial liabilities
or less months years years 5 years
Foreign currency bonds 15,391.81 4,564.32 - - 19,956.13
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Unsecured foreign currency loans from banks 9,182.35 3,175.56 13,979.22 - 26,337.13
Secured bonds 611.56 7,151.25 6,159.73 6,037.84 22,071.19 42,031.57
and financial institutions
Unsecured bonds 4,989.38 402.76 1,500.00 4,000.00 14,983.31 25,875.45
Trade payables and other financial liabilities 1,656.46 1,347.75 34.28 11.73 3,050.22
Rupee term loans from banks 1,274.85 4,866.85 7,177.11 25,419.07 45,892.83 84,630.71
Total 26,230.62 9,087.63 14,013.50 11.73 49,343.48
Rupee term loans from others 107.82 276.10 721.54 2,787.42 7,025.31 10,918.19
The gain/(loss) on account of exchange rate variations on all foreign currency loans and foreign currency monetary items
Lease obligations 150.51 75.45 98.68 236.26 2,590.16 3,151.06
(up to COD) is recoverable from beneficiaries. Therefore, currency risk in respect of such exposure would not be very
Foreign currency notes 67.81 37.92 7,860.30 11,990.10 - 19,956.13 significant.
Unsecured foreign currency loans 339.06 846.00 990.33 8,495.58 13,129.52 23,800.49
Sensitivity analysis
from banks and financial institutions
Since the impact of strengthening or weakening of INR against USD, Euro, JPY and other currencies on the statement of
Unsecured foreign currency loans 36.96 218.40 249.33 683.10 1,712.94 2,900.73
profit and loss would not be very significant; therefore, sensitivity analysis for currency risk is not disclosed.
(guaranteed by GOI)
Commercial paper, cash credit and 13,143.12 1,095.35 - - - 14,238.47 Embedded derivatives
Short term working capital loan Certain contracts of the Group for construction of power plants with vendors awarded through International Competitive
Trade and other payables 31,567.52 5,888.28 892.34 1,179.63 719.47 40,247.24 Bidding are denominated in a third currency i.e. a currency which is not the functional currency of any of the parties to
the contract. The Group has awarded the above contracts without any intention to enter into any derivative contract or
68. Financial Risk Management to leverage/ take position and without any option/intention to net settle at any point of time during the tenure of the
contract. The Group has not separately recognised the foreign currency embedded derivative and has not designated
Market risk
the entire hybrid contract at fair value through profit or loss considering the same as impracticable and absence of a
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates and interest rates will affect the reliable valuation model.
Group’s income. The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within
acceptable parameters, while optimising the return.
602 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 603
68. Financial Risk Management Cash flow sensitivity analysis for variable-rate instruments
Interest rate risk A change of 50 basis points in interest rates at the reporting date would have increased (decreased) profit or loss by the
amounts shown below. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant.
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk arising mainly from non-current borrowings with floating interest rates. The
The analysis is performed on the same basis for the previous year.
Group is exposed to interest rate risk because the cash flows associated with floating rate borrowings will fluctuate with
changes in interest rates. The Group manages the interest rate risks by entering into different kinds of loan arrangements ````` Crore
with varied terms (e.g. fixed rate loans, floating rate loans, rupee term loans, foreign currency loans, etc.). Particulars Profit or loss
At the reporting date the interest rate profile of the Group’s interest-bearing financial instruments is as follows: 50 bp increase 50 bp decrease
````` Crore 31 March 2024
Foreign currency loans/notes (113.49) 113.49
Particulars 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Rupee term loans (464.64) 464.64
Financial Assets:
Cash credit and Short term working capital loan (0.50) 0.50
Fixed-rate instruments
(578.63) 578.63
Loan to related parties 0.08 14.07
31 March 2023
Debentures 525.00 575.00
Foreign currency loans/notes (96.08) 96.08
Loans to others 17.22 21.53
Rupee term loans (448.09) 448.09
Bank deposits 4,969.67 3,846.44
Cash credit and Short term working capital loan (3.46) 3.46
Total 5,511.97 4,457.04
(547.63) 547.63
Financial Liabilities:
Of the above mentioned increase in the interest expense, an amount of ````` 116.56 crore (31 March 2023: ` 125.54 crore)
Fixed-rate instruments
is expected to be capitalised and recovered from beneficiaries through tariff.
Bonds 62,339.36 67,904.26
Change in interest benchmarks
Foreign currency loans/notes* 22,647.04 23,012.47
As part of the IBOR transition, the Company has replaced the USD LIBOR with compounded SOFR for all financial
Rupee term loans 291.27 308.09
instruments, requiring the renegotiation of financing contracts. Changes to contractual cash flows as a result of replacing
Commercial paper and Short term working capital loan 16,917.36 12,833.76 the existing benchmark interest rate on an economically equivalent basis as a direct consequence of the interest rate
Lease obligations 2,090.68 1,820.79 benchmark reform are accounted for by adjusting the effective interest rate without recognizing any direct modification
gains or losses. There is no material impact on the change of the benchmark rate.
Total (A) 1,04,285.71 1,05,879.37
(Note: IBOR-Inter Bank Offered Rates, LIBOR-London Interbank Offered Rate, SOFR – Secured Overnight Financing Rate)
Variable-rate instruments
Foreign currency loans/notes 25,958.77 23,303.20
69. Fair Value Measurements
Rupee term loans 1,06,488.85 95,240.81
(a) Financial instruments by category
Cash credit and short term loans 3,252.42 1,364.45 ````` Crore
Total (B) 1,35,700.04 1,19,908.46
Particulars 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Total (A+B) 2,39,985.75 2,25,787.83 FVTPL FVTOCI Amortised FVTPL FVTOCI Amortised
Cost Cost
Fair value sensitivity analysis for fixed-rate instruments
Financial assets
The Group’s fixed rate instruments are carried at amortised cost. They are therefore not subject to interest rate risk, Investments
since neither the carrying amount nor the future cash flows will fluctuate because of a change in market interest rates.
- Equity instruments 3.78 224.82 - 3.78 103.92 -
- Debentures - - 525.00 - - 575.00
Trade Receivables - - 34,637.22 - - 32,751.09
Loans - - 841.31 - - 822.55
Cash and cash equivalents - - 863.34 - - 465.65
Other bank balances - - 5,984.00 - - 4,482.88
Finance lease receivables - - 211.01 - - 285.19
Other financial assets - - 13,712.50 - - 9,527.58
Total 3.78 224.82 56,774.38 3.78 103.92 48,909.94
604 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 605
````` Crore If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in level 2. This level
includes mutual funds which are valued using the closing NAV.
Particulars 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
FVTPL FVTOCI Amortised FVTPL FVTOCI Amortised Level 3: If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in
Cost Cost level 3. The fair value of financial assets and liabilities included in Level 3 is determined in accordance with generally
accepted pricing models based on discounted cash flow analysis using prices from prevailing market transactions and
Financial liabilities
dealer quotes of similar instruments.
Borrowings (including interest accrued) - - 2,17,725.29 - - 2,09,768.83
There have been no transfers in either direction for the years ended 31 March 2024 and 31 March 2023.
Commercial paper and cash credit - - 20,105.89 - - 14,161.14
Lease obligations - - 2,090.68 - - 1,820.79 (c) Valuation technique used to determine fair value:
Trade payables - - 11,337.95 - - 11,356.16 Specific valuation techniques used to fair value of financial instruments include:
Payable for capital expenditure - - 22,958.51 - - 21,204.80 i) For financial instruments other than at ii), iii) and iv) - the use of quoted market prices.
Other financial liabilities - - 7,735.67 - - 7,614.97
ii) For investments in mutual funds - Closing NAV is used.
Total - - 2,81,953.99 - - 2,65,926.69
iii) For financial liabilities (vendor liabilities, debentures/bonds, foreign currency notes, domestic/foreign currency loans):
Discounted cash flow; appropriate market borrowing rate of the entity as of each balance sheet date used for
(b) Fair value hierarchy
discounting.
This section explains the judgements and estimates made in determining the fair values of the financial instruments that
iv) For financial assets (employee loans) - Discounted cash flow; appropriate market rate (SBI lending rate) as of each
are (a) recognised and measured at fair value and (b) measured at amortised cost and for which fair values are disclosed
balance sheet date used for discounting.
in the financial statements. To provide an indication about the reliability of the inputs used in determining fair value, the
Group has classified its financial instruments into the three levels prescribed under the accounting standard. An explanation (d) Fair value of financial assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost
of each level follows underneath the table. ````` Crore
````` Crore Particulars As at 31 March 2024 As at 31 March 2023
Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value- Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level Carrying Fair Carrying Fair
recurring fair value measurement as at 31 March 2024 amount value amount value
Financial assets: Financial assets
Investments in quoted equity instruments - PTC India Ltd. 223.20 - - 223.20 Other investments 3 525.00 525.00 575.00 575.00
Investments in unquoted equity instruments - - 5.40 5.40 Loans 3 841.31 841.31 822.55 781.43
Finance lease receivables 3 211.01 211.01 285.19 285.19
223.20 - 5.40 228.60
Claims recoverable 3 730.12 730.12 1,153.04 1,153.04
````` Crore
Trade receivables 3 34,637.22 34,637.22 32,751.09 32,751.09
Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value- Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Cash and cash equivalents 1 863.34 863.34 465.65 465.65
recurring fair value measurement as at 31 March 2023 Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents 1 5,984.00 5,984.00 4,482.88 4,482.88
Financial assets: Other financial assets 3 12,982.38 12,982.38 8,374.54 8,374.54
Investments in quoted equity instruments - PTC India Ltd. 102.30 - - 102.30 Total 56,774.38 56,774.38 48,909.94 48,868.82
Investments in unquoted equity instruments - - 5.40 5.40 Financial liabilities
Bonds/Debentures 1 - -
102.30 - 5.40 107.70
2 48,791.35 49,518.67 12,357.58 13,249.47
The Group has an established control framework with respect to the measurement of fair values. This includes a valuation
3 13,548.01 14,165.67 55,546.68 56,852.50
team that has overall responsibility for overseeing all significant fair value measurements and reports directly to the
Foreign currency notes 2 15,672.89 15,638.81 15,369.34 15,247.39
Director (Finance). The valuation team regularly reviews significant unobservable inputs and valuation adjustments. If
3 4,590.70 4,418.02 4,554.79 4,203.16
third party information, such as broker quotes or pricing services, is used to measure fair values, then the valuation team
assesses the evidence obtained from the third parties to support the conclusion that these valuations meet the Foreign currency loans 3 28,342.22 28,344.33 26,391.54 26,408.92
requirements of Ind AS, including the level in the fair value hierarchy in which the valuations should be classified. Significant Rupee term loans 2 11,691.10 11,691.10 10,467.49 10,096.03
valuation issues are reported to the audit committee. 3 95,089.02 92,642.28 85,081.41 84,900.31
Lease Obligations 3 2,090.68 2,090.68 1,820.79 1,820.79
Fair values are categorised into different levels in a fair value hierarchy based on the inputs used in the valuation techniques
as follows: Borrowings - current 1 20,169.78 20,169.78 14,198.21 14,198.21
Trade payables & payable for capital expenditure 2 3.66 3.66 3.63 4.35
Level 1: Level 1 hierarchy includes financial instruments measured using quoted prices. This includes investments in
3 34,292.80 34,292.80 32,557.33 32,586.74
quoted equity instruments. Quoted equity instruments are valued using quoted prices on national stock exchange.
Other financial liabilities 3 7,671.78 7,671.78 7,577.90 7,577.90
Level 2: The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined using valuation
Total 2,81,953.99 2,80,647.58 2,65,926.69 2,67,145.77
techniques which maximise the use of observable market data and rely as little as possible on entity specific estimates.
606 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 607
The carrying amounts of current trade receivables, current trade payables, payable for capital expenditure, cash and ````` Crore
cash equivalents and other financial assets and liabilities are considered to be the same as their fair values, due to their
Name of subsidiary company Place of business/ Ownership interest Ownership interest Principal activities
short-term nature.
country of held by the held by non-controlling
The carrying values for finance lease receivables approximates the fair value as these are periodically evaluated based incorporation group as at interests as at
on credit worthiness of customer and allowance for estimated losses is recorded based on this evaluation. Also, carrying 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March
amount of claims recoverable approximates its fair value as these are recoverable immediately. 2024 2023 2024 2023
The fair values for loans, borrowings, non-current trade payables and payable for capital expenditure were calculated NTPC Electric Supply Company Ltd. (NESCL) India 100.00 100.00 - - Consultancy &
based on cash flows discounted using a current discount rate. They are classified at respective levels based on availability Distribution of energy
of quoted prices and inclusion of observable/non observable inputs. NTPC Vidyut Vyapar Nigam Ltd. (NVVN) India 100.00 100.00 - - Trading of energy
Bhartiya Rail Bijlee Company Ltd. (BRBCL) India 74.00 74.00 26.00 26.00 Generation of energy
70. Capital Management
Patratu Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Ltd. (PVUNL) India 74.00 74.00 26.00 26.00 Generation of energy
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to: NTPC Mining Ltd. (NML) India 100.00 100.00 - - Coal mining
- safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern, so that it can continue to provide returns for shareholders and THDC India Ltd. (THDCIL) India 74.496 74.496 25.504 25.504 Generation of energy
benefits for other stakeholders and North Eastern Electric Power Corporation Ltd. India 100.00 100.00 - - Generation of energy
(NEEPCO)
- maintain an appropriate capital structure of debt and equity.
NTPC EDMC Waste Solutions Private Ltd. India 74.00 74.00 26.00 26.00 Generation of energy
The Board of Directors has the primary responsibility to maintain a strong capital base and reduce the cost of capital
(NTPC EDMC)
through prudent management in deployment of funds and sourcing by leveraging opportunities in domestic and
Ratnagiri Gas & Power Private Ltd. (RGPPL) India 86.49 86.49 13.51 13.51 Generation of energy
international financial markets so as to maintain investors, creditors & markets’ confidence and to sustain future
development of the business. The Board of Directors monitors the return on capital, which the Company defines as NTPC Green Energy Ltd.* (w.e.f. 7 April 2022) India 100.00 100.00 - - Generation of energy
returns from operating activities divided by total shareholders’ equity deployed in operating activities. The Board of (1) The shareholders of the NESCL in its Extra-ordinary General Meeting held on 24 March, 2015, inter alia, approved
Directors also monitors the level of dividends to equity shareholders in line with the dividend distribution policy of the the proposal for transfer and vesting of all existing operations of NESCL together with all assets and liabilities relating
Company. to such operations to NTPC Limited, the Parent Company, with effect from 1 April, 2015. After obtaining the aforesaid
Under the terms of major borrowing facilities, the Group is required to comply with the following financial covenants: approval, an agreement was entered into with the Parent Company to implement such transfer. In pursuance of the
above, it does not have any operations w.e.f 1 April 2015.
(i) Total liability to networth ranges between 2:1 to 3:1.
(2) The Company has incorporated a subsidiary company ‘NTPC EDMC Waste Solutions Pvt. Ltd.’, in joint venture with
(ii) Ratio of EBITDA to interest expense shall not at any time be less than 1.75 : 1.
East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) on 1 June 2020, with equity participation of 74:26 respectively to develop
(iii) Debt service coverage ratio not less than 1.10:1 (in case of foreign currency borrowings).
and operate state of the art / modern integrated waste management & energy generation facility. The Board of
There have been no breaches in the financial covenants of any interest bearing borrowings. Directors of the Company in its 494th meeting held on 4 February 2021 had accorded approval for transfer of its
shareholding in the subsidiary to M/s NVVN Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company which is yet to take
The Group monitors capital, using a medium term view of three to five years, on the basis of a number of financial ratios
place.
generally used by industry and by the rating agencies. The Group is not subject to externally imposed capital requirements.
(3) The Company had an investment of ` 834.55 crore as at 1 April 2020 in the equity shares of Ratnagiri Gas and Power
The Group monitors capital using gearing ratio which is net debt divided by total equity. Net debt comprises of non-
Private Ltd. (RGPPL), an erstwhile joint venture of the Company. The Company had entered into a tripartite framework
current and current borrowings less cash and cash equivalent. Equity includes equity share capital and reserves that are
agreement with RGPPL and its lenders on 31 December 2020 for settlement of RGPPL’s outstanding debt liabilities
managed as capital. The gearing ratio at the end of the reporting period was as follows:
as per the Composite Resolution Plan. As per the Resolution Plan, the Company has provided inter corporate loan of
````` Crore
` 885 crore to RGPPL for settlement of loan with the lenders. Further, 35.47% of equity held by lenders in RGPPL
Particulars As at As at have been transferred to the Company as a part of the Resolution Plan at nominal value. Consequently, the Company’s
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 equity shareholding in RGPPL has increased from 25.51% to 60.98% and RGPPL has become a subsidiary company of
Borrowings (including interest accrued) 2,37,831.18 2,23,929.97 the Company with effect from 31 December 2020. Further, the Company had an investment of ` 139.75 crore as at
1 April 2020 in the equity shares of Konkan LNG Ltd. (KLL), an erstwhile joint venture of the Company. The Company
Less: Cash and cash equivalent 863.34 465.65
had executed Share Purchase Agreements with GAIL (India) Ltd. on 23 February 2021, for purchase of GAIL’s share
Net Debt 2,36,967.84 2,23,464.32
(25.51%) in RGPPL and Sale of Company’s share (14.82%) (on fully dilutive basis) in KLL, at a nominal value of ` 1/-
Total Equity 1,65,122.28 1,50,953.62 . Consequently, the Company had exited from KLL after transfer of shares as per the Share Purchase Agreements
and the Company’s shareholding in RGPPL has become 86.49% with effect from 23 February 2021.
Net Debt to Equity ratio 1.44 1.48
(b) Non-controlling interests (NCI)
71. Disclosure as per Ind AS 112 ‘Disclosure of Interest in Other Entities’
Set out below is summarised financial information for each subsidiary that has non-controlling interest. The amounts
(a) Subsidiary companies disclosed for each subsidiary are before inter-company eliminations.
The Group’s subsidiaries at 31 March 2024 are set out below. Unless otherwise stated, they have share capital consisting
solely of equity shares that are held directly by the group, and the proportion of ownership interests held equals the
voting rights held by the group. The country of incorporation or registration is also their principal place of business.
608 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 609
Summarised balance sheet ````` Crore (c) Details of significant restrictions
Particulars Bhartiya Rail Patratu Vidyut THDC India Ltd. NTPC EDMC RGPPL In respect of investments in subsidiary companies, the Group has restrictions for their disposal as under:
Bijlee Company Ltd. Utpadan Nigam Ltd.
````` Crore
As at As at As at As at As at As at As at As at As at As at
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March Name of the Subsidiary Period of restrictions for disposal of investments Amount invested
2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
as per related agreements as at
Current assets 742.76 973.24 501.02 428.62 2,332.31 1,575.34 0.11 0.12 1,678.84 449.90
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Current liabilities 1,362.84 1,534.48 4,454.76 3,733.27 4,516.02 2,676.12 3.46 3.44 449.94 474.97
Bhartiya Rail Bijlee 5 years from the date of commercial operation of 1,774.12 1,774.12
Net current assets/(liabilities) (620.08) (561.24) (3,953.74) (3,304.65) (2,183.71) (1,100.78) (3.35) (3.32) 1,228.90 (25.07)
Company Ltd. the last unit of the project.
Non-current assets 7,993.14 7,978.39 13,874.32 11,210.64 28,974.22 23,682.17 - 934.38 883.44
Patratu Vidyut Utpadan 5 years from the date of signing of agreement or 2,164.55 1,737.62
Non-current liabilities 4,238.43 4,464.13 7,035.26 5,593.25 15,768.52 11,781.01 - 498.58 927.90 Nigam Ltd. till the date of commercial operation of the last
Net non-current assets 3,754.71 3,514.26 6,839.06 5,617.39 13,205.70 11,901.16 - - 435.80 (44.46) new unit of Phase-I, whichever is later.
Regulatory deferral account 46.05 32.13 37.15 32.81 215.72 133.42 - - THDC India Ltd. Save and except with prior written consent of GOI, 7,500.00 7,500.00
debit balances NTPC shall not take any action that may result in
Regulatory deferral account 157.86 107.15 - 680.37 497.46 - - shareholding in the subsidiary falling below 51%
credit balances and shall not take any action that may result in the
Net assets 3,022.82 2,878.00 2,922.47 2,345.55 10,557.34 10,436.34 (3.35) (3.32) 1,664.70 (69.53) subsidiary ceasing to be a government company.
Accumulated NCI 781.70 744.78 759.84 609.85 2,689.14 2,659.47 0.87 (0.87) 169.78 (91.54) North Eastern Electric Save and except with prior written consent of GOI, 4,000.00 4,000.00
Power Corporation Ltd. NTPC shall not take any action that may result in
Summarised statement of profit and loss for the year ended ````` Crore
shareholding / or total voting power in the
Particulars Bhartiya Rail Patratu Vidyut THDC India Ltd. NTPC EDMC RGPPL subsidiary falling below 51% and shall not take any
Bijlee Company Ltd. Utpadan Nigam Ltd. action that may result in the subsidiary ceasing to
For the For the For the For the For the For the For the For the For the For the be a government company. Further, NTPC shall
year ended year ended year ended year ended year ended year ended year ended year ended year ended year ended
continue to hold 100% of paid up capital and
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March
voting power in the subsidiary till all amounts
2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
repayable under the loan agreement executed
Total income 3,721.22 3,433.84 0.11 0.16 2,012.61 2,014.52 - - 3,095.31 541.31
between the subsidiary and KfW are repaid.
Profit/(loss) for the year 517.01 248.14 (0.01) (0.51) 596.97 672.91 (0.02) (0.56) 1,734.23 (199.94)
NTPC EDMC Waste 5 years from the date of incorporation 0.15 0.15
Other comprehensive income/(expense) 0.05 - (9.74) (2.52) - -
Solutions Pvt Ltd (i.e. 01 June 2020)
Total comprehensive income/(expense) 517.01 248.19 (0.01) (0.51) 587.23 670.39 (0.02) (0.56) 1,734.23 (199.94)
Total 15,438.82 15,011.89
Profit/(loss) allocated to NCI 134.42 64.53 (0.00) (0.13) 149.77 170.98 (0.01) (0.15) - -
Dividends paid to NCI 97.50 78.00 - 120.24 139.75 - - (d) Joint operations
The group has entered into production sharing contracts (PSCs) with GoI for some exploration blocks whose principal
Summarised cash flows for the year ended ````` Crore
place of business is in India. For detailed disclosures of these joint operations, refer Note 66.
Particulars Bhartiya Rail Patratu Vidyut THDC India Ltd. NTPC EDMC RGPPL
Bijlee Company Ltd. Utpadan Nigam Ltd. (e) Interests in joint venture companies
For the For the For the For the For the For the For the For the For the For the
List of joint venture companies as at 31 March 2024 in which the group has interest, is as below. These entities have
year ended year ended year ended year ended year ended year ended year ended year ended year ended year ended
share capital consisting solely of equity shares, which are held directly by the group. The country of incorporation or
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March
2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 registration is also their principal place of business, and the proportion of ownership interest is the same as the proportion
of voting rights held.
Cash flows from/(used in) operating activities 1,315.40 1,414.09 124.56 76.19 423.26 1,881.86 - (0.22) 653.54 37.47
````` Crore
Cash flows from/(used in) investing activities (238.28) (271.47) (1,620.52) (1,873.08) (4,236.96) (4,802.45) - 0.06 (27.47) (53.00)
Cash flows from/(used in) financing activities (1,081.38) (1,145.23) 1,500.32 1,784.35 3,997.54 2,901.69 - - (648.15) (67.80) Name of joint venture company Place of business/ Ownership interest Accounting Carrying
country of held by the group method amount as at
Net increase/ (decrease) in cash and cash (4.26) (2.61) 4.36 (12.54) 183.84 (18.90) - (0.16) (22.08) (83.33)
equivalents incorporation (in %) as at
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March
2024 2023 2024 2023
Utility Powertech Ltd. India 50.00 50.00 Equity method 110.03 103.03
NTPC-GE Power Services Private Ltd. $ India 50.00 50.00 Equity method 15.27 9.31
NTPC-SAIL Power Company Ltd. India 50.00 50.00 Equity method 1,580.44 1,439.11
NTPC Tamil Nadu Energy Company Ltd. India 50.00 50.00 Equity method 1,947.14 1,898.93
Aravali Power Company Private Ltd. $ India 50.00 50.00 Equity method 2,449.75 2,447.94
610 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 611
612 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 613
erorC
`````
teehs
ecnalab
desirammuS
rewoP
ilavarA
udaN
limaT-CPTN
rewoP
LIAS-CPTN
rewoP
EG-CPTN
hcetrewoP
ytilitU
sralucitraP
.dtL
etavirP
ynapmoC
.dtL
ynapmoC
ygrenE
.dtL
ynapmoC
.dtL
.tvP
secivreS
.dtL
ta
sA
ta
sA
ta
sA
ta
sA
ta
sA
ta
sA
ta
sA
ta
sA
ta
sA
ta
sA
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
3202
4202
3202
4202
3202
4202
3202
4202
3202
4202
stessa
tnerruC
35.8
64.51
47.462
80.5
08.23
62.26
11.13
84.53
66.03
91.41
stnelaviuqe
hsac
dna hsaC
98.647,2
73.528,2
90.377,1
69.329,1
02.229
67.879
65.271
37.371
55.854
14.813
stessa rehtO
24.557,2
38.048,2
38.730,2
40.929,1
00.559
20.140,1
76.302
12.902
12.984
06.233
stessa
tnerruc latoT
17.115,6
47.962,6
02.394,7
47.599,6
13.126,4
25.285,4
82.42
53.32
76.691
98.301
stessa
tnerruc-non
latoT
seitilibail
tnerruC
24.591,1
34.441,1
19.069,1
18.238,1
23.631,1
95.899
41.1
23.5
28.312
17.161
)snoisivorp
dna
selbayap
edart
gnidulcxe(
seitilibail
laicnaniF
60.904
49.435
03.945
12.413
56.204
16.943
01.391
54.081
79.912
78.64
seitilibail
rehtO
84.406,1
73.976,1
12.015,2
20.741,2
79.835,1
02.843,1
42.491
77.581
97.334
85.802
seitilibail
tnerruc latoT
seitilibail
tnerruc-noN
98.780,2
91.066,1
65.911,3
06.007,2
39.251,1
47.501,1
51.0
-
46.41
04.0
)snoisivorp
dna
selbayap
edart
gnidulcxe(
seitilibail
laicnaniF
24.3
29.4
46.784
31.786
02.6
27.8
59.41
62.61
93.13
54.7
seitilibail
rehtO
13.190,2
11.566,1
02.706,3
37.783,3
31.951,1
64.411,1
01.51
62.61
30.64
58.7
seitilibail
tnerruc-non
latoT
79.04
51.0
05.984
71.385
-
-
-
-
-
-
secnalab
tibed
tnuocca
larrefed
yrotalugeR
20.344
01.815
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
secnalab
tiderc
tnuocca
larrefed
yrotalugeR
-
-
00.06
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
tnemtolla
gnidnep
yenom
noitacilppa
erahS
92.961,5
41.842,5
21.348,3
02.379,3
12.878,2
88.061,3
16.81
35.03
60.602
60.022
stessa
teN
erorC
`````
stnuoma
gniyrrac
ot noitailicnoceR
rewoP
ilavarA
udaN
limaT-CPTN
rewoP
LIAS-CPTN
rewoP
EG-CPTN
hcetrewoP
ytilitU
sralucitraP
.dtL
etavirP
ynapmoC
.dtL
ynapmoC
ygrenE
.dtL
ynapmoC
.dtL
.tvP
secivreS
.dtL
ta
sA
ta
sA
ta
sA
ta
sA
ta
sA
ta
sA
ta
sA
ta
sA
ta
sA
ta
sA
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
3202
4202
3202
4202
3202
4202
3202
4202
3202
4202
12.316,5
92.961,5
07.617,3
21.348,3
12.750,3
12.878,2
48.41
16.81
43.981
60.602
stessa
ten gninepO
74.694
73.747
12.848
48.685
43.074
58.534
99.5
24.21
16.23
)67.5(
raey
eht rof
)ssol(/tiforP
92.0
)22.0(
30.0
-
66.0
)81.3(
)62.0(
)51.0(
11.4
67.91
)esnepxe(/emocni
evisneherpmoc
rehtO
)00.059(
)00.057(
)66.057(
)34.055(
)00.056(
)00.051(
-
)06.0(
)00.02(
diap
sdnediviD
23.9
07.18
48.82
76.39
)69.1(
52.0
-
*stnemtsujda
rehtO
92.961,5
41.842,5
21.348,3
02.379,3
12.878,2
88.061,3
16.81
35.03
60.602
60.022
stessa
ten gnisolC
00.05
00.05
00.05
00.05
00.05
00.05
00.05
00.05
00.05
00.05
% ni erahs
s’puorG
56.485,2
70.426,2
65.129,1
06.689,1
11.934,1
44.085,1
13.9
72.51
30.301
30.011
RNI ni erahs
s’puorG
)17.631(
)23.471(
)36.22(
)64.93(
-
-
-
ICN/)sevreser
detcirtseR(/lliwdooG
49.744,2
57.944,2
39.898,1
41.749,1
11.934,1
44.085,1
13.9
72.51
30.301
30.011
tnuoma
gniyrraC
segnahc
htrow
ten
gninepo
dna
srentrap
erutnev
tnioj
eht
yb
tnemtsevni
rehtruf
fo
tnuocca
no
stnemtsujda
sedulcnI
*
````` Crore
Name of joint venture company Place of business/ Ownership interest Accounting Carrying
country of held by the group method amount as at
incorporation (in %) as at
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March
2024 2023 2024 2023
NTPC BHEL Power Projects Private Ltd. *$ India 50.00 50.00 Equity method - -
Meja Urja Nigam Private Ltd. India 50.00 50.00 Equity method 1,923.18 1,707.23
Transformers and Electricals Kerala Ltd. **$ India 44.60 44.60 Equity method 5.47 7.41
National High Power Test Laboratory India 21.63 20.00 Equity method 12.32 -
Private Ltd. $
Energy Efficiency Services Ltd. $ India 39.25 33.334 Equity method 624.35 292.49
CIL NTPC Urja Private Ltd. India 50.00 50.00 Equity method 0.08 0.07
Anushakti Vidhyut Nigam Ltd. $ India 49.00 49.00 Equity method - -
Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Ltd.# India 29.67 29.67 Equity method 3,009.95 2,269.89
Jhabua Power Ltd. India 50.00 50.00 Equity method 1,965.23 2,021.21
(w.e.f. 5 September 2022)
KSK Dibbin Hydro Power Private Ltd. India 30.00 30.00 Equity method 4.45 4.43
(Joint venture of Subsidiary Company,
NEEPCO Ltd.) $
Trincomalee Power Company Ltd. $ Srilanka 50.00 50.00 Equity method 0.86 0.41
Bangladesh-India Friendship Power Bangladesh 50.00 50.00 Equity method 1,482.39 1,050.63
Company Pvt.Ltd. $
$ The financial statements are un-audited and certified by the management of respective companies and have been
considered for Consolidated Financial Statements of the Group. The figures appearing in their respective financial
statements may change upon completion of their audit.
*The Board of Directors of the Company in its meeting held on 28 April 2016 accorded in principle approval for withdrawal
from NTPC BHEL Power Projects Private Ltd. (NBPPL), a joint venture of the Company. A meeting was held on 3 October
2022 at MOP to discuss the way forward for NBPPL. In the meeting, it was decided that the process of winding up of
NBPPL will be taken up by both the promoters after the completion of balance on going work at one of the projects of
the Company.
**The Board of Directors of the Company in its meeting held on 28 April 2016 accorded in principle approval for withdrawal
from Transformers and Electricals Kerala Ltd. (TELK), a joint venture of the Company. GOI has accorded its approval for
exit of NTPC from the joint venture. The decision of the Board of Directors of NTPC Limited and approval of GOI has been
conveyed to the Government of Kerala (GoK) (JV Partner) & TELK. The GoK has requested NTPC to review the decision.
NTPC again took up the matter with GoK who has now in principally agreed for the exit of NTPC and NTPC has written a
letter to Chief Secretary, GoK on 17 March 2023 for expediting the process of exit of the Company from TELK.
# The percentage holding in HURL has been considered as 29.67% in view of the concession agreement dated 6 September
2018 and shares to be allotted to FCIL and HFCL for the right of use land and other usable assets of its three fertilizer
plants.
(i) NTPC BHEL Power Projects Pvt Ltd (NTPC BHEL) (joint venture company) has accumulated losses due to which the Group
has recognised accumulated losses equal to the cost of investments of NTPC BHEL as at 31 March 2024. The Group has
unrecognised share of losses in respect of NTPC BHEL amounting to ````` 111.48 crore as at 31 March 2024 (31 March 2023:
` 91.73 crore) as per their unaudited financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2024. (ii) Summarised financial information of joint venture companies of the group
The tables below provide summarised financial information of joint venture companies of the group. The information disclosed reflects the amounts presented in the financial statements of the relevant joint venture companies and not the
group’s share of those amounts.
614 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 615
erorC
`````
dedne
raey
eht
rof
ssol
dna
tiforp
fo
tnemetats
desirammuS
rewoP
ilavarA
udaN
limaT-CPTN
rewoP
LIAS-CPTN
rewoP
EG-CPTN
hcetrewoP
ytilitU
sralucitraP
.dtL
etavirP
ynapmoC
.dtL
ynapmoC
ygrenE
.dtL
ynapmoC
.dtL
.tvP
secivreS
.dtL
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
3202
4202
3202
4202
3202
4202
3202
4202
3202
4202
65.362,5
37.573,5
98.151,5
21.532,4
76.836,3
40.458,3
46.934
45.805
08.916,1
33.345
snoitarepo
morf
euneveR
29.211
86.78
04.227
92.641
70.96
55.61
49.0
28.2
87.51
19.72
emocni
rehtO
37.024
93.273
38.215
66.225
50.67
85.87
13.11
00.3
73.1
73.1
noitasitroma
dna
noitaicerpeD
35.661
40.051
02.972
10.092
50.99
02.721
16.2
41.0
30.6
62.4
esnepxe
tseretnI
47.69
27.69
56.205
28.802
52.97
40.301
97.2
48.6
28.11
81.3
)emocni(/esnepxe
xat emocnI
74.694
73.747
12.848
48.685
43.074
58.534
99.5
24.21
16.23
)67.5(
raey
eht rof
)ssol(/tiforP
92.0
)22.0(
30.0
-
66.0
)81.3(
)62.0(
)51.0(
11.4
67.91
)esnepxe(/emocni
evisneherpmoc
rehtO
67.694
51.747
42.848
48.685
00.174
76.234
37.5
72.21
27.63
00.41
)esnepxe(/emocni
evisneherpmoc
latoT
-
-
-
-
-
deviecer
sdnediviD
)3202
hcraM
13-
2202
rebmetpeS
50(
doirep
noitisiuqca
tsop
rof
deredisnoc
ssol
&
tiforp
fo
tnemetatS
&
)2202
,rebmetpeS
5( etad
noitisuqca
no sa
stessa
teN
gninepO
**
erorC
`````
dedne
raey
eht
rof
erutidnepxE
latipaC
fo sliateD
rewoP
ilavarA
udaN
limaT-CPTN
rewoP
LIAS-CPTN
rewoP
EG-CPTN
hcetrewoP
ytilitU
sralucitraP
.dtL
etavirP
ynapmoC
.dtL
ynapmoC
ygrenE
.dtL
ynapmoC
.dtL
.tvP
secivreS
.dtL
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
3202
4202
3202
4202
3202
4202
3202
4202
3202
4202
97.94
56.86
35.971
50.701
23.84
84.83
-
-
45.0
79.82
cte
,stessA
elbignatnI
,tnempiuqE
&
tnalP
,ytreporP
ot noitiddA
)a(
78.401
74.67
17.573
52.263
)41.564(
32.752
-
-
70.11
24.3
)-/+(
ssergorp
ni krow
latipaC
ni segnahC
)b(
)61.1(
56.4
)84.54(
)76.31(
)28.3(
)90.51(
-
-
)21.0(
59.1
)-/+(
yletarapes
nwohs
fi ,ecnavda
latipaC
ni segnahC
)c(
05.351
77.941
67.905
36.554
)46.024(
26.082
-
-
94.11
43.43
latoT
erorC
`````
teehs
ecnalab
desirammuS
ajrU
CPTN
LIC
ycneiciffE
ygrenE
rewoP
hgiH
lanoitaN
dna
sremrofsnarT
magiN
ajrU
ajeM
rewoP
LEHB
CPTN
.dtL
etavirP
.dtL
secivreS
yrotarobaL
tseT
.dtL
alareK
slacirtcelE
.dtL
etavirP
.dtL
etavirP
stcejorP
.dtL
etavirP
ta
sA
ta
sA
ta
sA
ta
sA
ta
sA
ta
sA
ta
sA
ta
sA
ta
sA
ta sA
ta
sA
ta sA
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
3202
4202
3202
4202
3202
4202
3202
4202
3202
4202
3202
4202
stessa
tnerruC
80.0
31.0
92.125
07.353
76.7
22.03
69.2
-
77.35
85.632
24.1
63.1
stnelaviuqe
hsac
dna
hsaC
01.0
30.0
13.187,4
71.230,9
14.3
85.7
06.071
86.461
81.395,1
57.012,1
77.204
87.383
stessa
rehtO
81.0
61.0
06.203,5
78.583,9
80.11
08.73
65.371
86.461
59.646,1
33.744,1
91.404
41.583
stessa
tnerruc
latoT
-
99.601,5
58.807,1
31.522
92.961
04.33
09.25
66.317,01
00.011,01
98.891
66.291
stessa
tnerruc-non
latoT
seitilibail
tnerruC
-
64.606,3
88.210,3
48.49
00.16
59.39
91.25
34.479,1
12.907,1
66.42
29.72
seitilibail
laicnaniF
)snoisivorp
dna
selbayap
edart
gnidulcxe(
40.0
10.0
39.434,1
35.326,1
60.9
05.3
96.47
89.431
82.772
11.411
93.776
28.743
seitilibail
rehtO
40.0
10.0
93.140,5
14.636,4
09.301
05.46
46.861
71.781
17.152,2
23.328,1
50.207
47.573
seitilibail
tnerruc
latoT
seitilibail
tnerruc-noN
-
-
20.013,4
15.047,4
19.171
42.58
06.2
57.875,6
42.578,5
-
07.663
seitilibail
laicnaniF
)snoisivorp
dna
selbayap
edart
gnidulcxe(
-
-
28.531
83.78
05.0
93.0
11.91
41.81
01.0
78.61
94.48
23.85
seitilibail
rehtO
-
-
48.544,4
98.728,4
14.271
36.58
17.12
41.81
58.875,6
11.298,5
94.48
20.524
seitilibail
tnerruc-non
latoT
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
41.25
60.49
-
-
secnalab
tibed
tnuocca
larrefed
yrotalugeR
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
05.231
70.75
-
-
secnalab
tiderc
tnuocca
larrefed
yrotalugeR
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
65.51
-
-
-
tnemtolla
gnidnep
yenom
noitacilppa
erahS
41.0
51.0
63.229
24.036,1
)01.04(
69.65
16.61
72.21
31.434,3
98.878,3
)64.381(
)69.222(
stessa
teN
erorC
`````
stnuoma
gniyrrac
ot
noitailicnoceR
ajrU
CPTN
LIC
ycneiciffE
ygrenE
rewoP
hgiH
lanoitaN
dna
sremrofsnarT
magiN
ajrU
ajeM
rewoP
LEHB
CPTN
.dtL
etavirP
.dtL
secivreS
yrotarobaL
tseT
.dtL
alareK
slacirtcelE
.dtL
etavirP
.dtL
etavirP
stcejorP
.dtL
etavirP
ta
sA
ta
sA
ta
sA
ta
sA
ta
sA
ta
sA
ta
sA
ta
sA
ta
sA
ta sA
ta
sA
ta sA
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
3202
4202
3202
4202
3202
4202
3202
4202
3202
4202
3202
4202
20.0
41.0
32.962,1
63.229
02.17
)01.04(
06.25
16.61
58.172,3
31.434,3
)57.891(
)64.381(
stessa
ten gninepO
21.0
40.0
)47.133(
)38.393(
)03.111(
09.02
98.2
58.2
78.58
40.843
)94.5(
)61.4(
raey
eht rof
)ssol(/tiforP
-
-
24.7
)02.5(
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
20.0
)esnepxe(/emocni
evisneherpmoc
rehtO
-
-
-
-
-
diap
sdnediviD
-
)20.0(
)55.22(
90.701,1
-
61.67
)88.83(
)91.7(
14.67
27.69
87.02
)63.53(
*stnemtsujda
rehtO
41.0
61.0
63.229
24.036,1
)01.04(
69.65
16.61
72.21
31.434,3
98.878,3
)64.381(
)69.222(
stessa
ten gnisolC
00.05
00.05
433.33
252.93
00.02
36.12
06.44
06.44
00.05
00.05
00.05
00.05
% ni erahs
s’puorG
70.0
80.0
64.703
79.936
-
23.21
14.7
74.5
70.717,1
54.939,1
-
-
RNI ni erahs
s’puorG
-
)79.41(
)26.51(
-
-
)48.9(
)72.61(
-
ICN/)sevreser
detcirtseR(/lliwdooG
70.0
80.0
94.292
53.426
-
23.21
14.7
74.5
32.707,1
81.329,1
-
-
tnuoma
gniyrraC
segnahc
htrow
ten
gninepo
dna
srentrap
erutnev
tnioj
eht
yb tnemtsevni
rehtruf
fo
tnuocca
no
stnemtsujda
sedulcnI
*
616 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 617
erorC
`````
dedne
raey
eht
rof
ssol
dna
tiforp
fo
tnemetats
desirammuS
ajrU
CPTN
LIC
ycneiciffE
ygrenE
rewoP
hgiH
lanoitaN
dna
sremrofsnarT
magiN
ajrU
ajeM
rewoP
LEHB
CPTN
.dtL
etavirP
.dtL
secivreS
yrotarobaL
tseT
.dtL
alareK
slacirtcelE
.dtL
etavirP
.dtL
etavirP
stcejorP
.dtL
etavirP
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
3202
4202
3202
4202
3202
4202
3202
4202
3202
4202
3202
4202
51.0
60.0
93.373,2
79.383,1
60.02
55.93
01.381
81.031
18.908,3
88.142,4
54.44
70.91
snoitarepo morf
euneveR
-
10.0
04.57
63.274
21.0
65.6
80.9
30.1
44.93
34.14
00.2
39.0
emocni
rehtO
-
-
60.657
60.24
16.8
85.8
00.1
69.0
69.525
33.435
97.5
37.5
noitasitroma
dna
noitaicerpeD
-
10.0
88.264
97.665
69.02
53.9
22.8
33.9
10.265
15.745
71.0
79.0
esnepxe
tseretnI
-
-
)35.85(
)12.29(
-
-
-
)61.57(
47.421
96.3
58.2
)emocni(/esnepxe
xat emocnI
21.0
40.0
)47.133(
)38.393(
)03.111(
09.02
98.2
58.2
78.58
40.843
)94.5(
)61.4(
raey eht rof
)ssol(/tiforP
24.7
)02.5(
-
-
-
-
20.0
)esnepxe(/emocni
evisneherpmoc
rehtO
21.0
40.0
)23.423(
)30.993(
)03.111(
09.02
98.2
58.2
78.58
40.843
)94.5(
)41.4(
)esnepxe(/emocni
evisneherpmoc
latoT
-
-
-
-
-
-
deviecer
sdnediviD
)3202
hcraM
13-
2202
rebmetpeS
50(
doirep
noitisiuqca
tsop
rof
deredisnoc
ssol
&
tiforp
fo
tnemetatS
&
)2202
,rebmetpeS
5( etad
noitisuqca
no sa stessa teN
gninepO
**
erorC
`````
dedne
raey
eht
rof
erutidnepxE
latipaC
fo sliateD
ajrU
CPTN
LIC
ycneiciffE
ygrenE
rewoP
hgiH
lanoitaN
dna
sremrofsnarT
magiN
ajrU
ajeM
rewoP
LEHB
CPTN
.dtL
etavirP
.dtL
secivreS
yrotarobaL
tseT
.dtL
alareK
slacirtcelE
.dtL
etavirP
.dtL
etavirP
stcejorP
.dtL
etavirP
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
3202
4202
3202
4202
3202
4202
3202
4202
3202
4202
3202
4202
-
54.516
29.255
-
-
98.312
73.742
-
-
,tnempiuqE
&
tnalP
,ytreporP ot noitiddA
)a(
cte ,stessA elbignatnI
-
58.451
99.732
-
-
83.55
84.541
-
-
)-/+(
ssergorp
ni krow
latipaC ni segnahC
)b(
-
)89.56(
-
-
-
)55.81(
)61.62(
-
-
nwohs
fi ,ecnavda
latipaC ni segnahC
)c(
)-/+( yletarapes
-
-
23.407
19.097
-
-
-
-
27.052
96.663
-
-
latoT
erorC
`````
teehs
ecnalab desirammuS
.dtL
rewoP
aubahJ
aidnI-hsedalgnaB
rewoP
eelamocnirT
ordyH
nibbiD
KSK
karavrU
natsudniH
tuyhdiV
itkahsunA
rewoP
pihsdneirF
.dtL
ynapmoC
.dtL
etavirP
rewoP
.dtL
nayasaR
dna
.dtL
magiN
.dtL
.tvP
ynapmoC
ta
sA
ta
sA
ta
sA
ta
sA
ta
sA
ta
sA
ta
sA
ta
sA
ta
sA
ta
sA
ta
sA
ta sA
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
3202
4202
3202
4202
3202
4202
3202
4202
3202
4202
3202
4202
stessa
tnerruC
61.32
21.504
80.303
84.663
95.0
13.0
10.0
20.0
68.171
74.234
10.0
10.0
stnelaviuqe hsac
dna
hsaC
18.905,1
27.930,1
62.680,1
61.590,2
41.0
10.0
50.5
63.4
89.978,2
07.972,4
00.0
stessa
rehtO
79.235,1
48.444,1
43.983,1
46.164,2
37.0
23.0
60.5
83.4
48.150,3
71.217,4
10.0
10.0
stessa
tnerruc
latoT
99.927,3
11.326,3
18.300,41
96.416,41
62.1
91.3
71.021
16.221
89.807,42
73.823,42
stessa tnerruc-non
latoT
seitilibail
tnerruC
00.001
00.001
38.932,1
23.670,1
10.0
-
85.1
65.1
21.227,4
76.724,3
-
-
seitilibail
laicnaniF
)snoisivorp
dna
selbayap edart
gnidulcxe(
27.35
44.28
42.014
59.531,1
50.0
30.0
55.0
35.0
64.987
27.369
-
10.0
seitilibail
rehtO
27.351
44.281
70.056,1
72.212,2
60.0
30.0
31.2
90.2
85.115,5
93.193,4
-
10.0
seitilibail
tnerruc
latoT
seitilibail
tnerruc-noN
38.660,1
60.559
38.146,11
92.998,11
11.1
77.1
91.51
29.61
97.687,31
26.473,31
-
-
seitilibail
laicnaniF
)snoisivorp
dna
selbayap edart
gnidulcxe(
-
-
-
-
40.0
40.0
34.761,1
67.316,1
-
-
seitilibail
rehtO
38.660,1
60.559
38.146,11
92.998,11
11.1
77.1
32.51
69.61
22.459,41
83.889,41
-
-
seitilibail tnerruc-non
latoT
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
secnalab
tibed
tnuocca larrefed
yrotalugeR
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
secnalab
tiderc
tnuocca larrefed
yrotalugeR
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
tnemtolla
gnidnep
yenom noitacilppa
erahS
14.240,4
54.039,3
52.101,2
77.469,2
28.0
17.1
78.701
49.701
20.592,7
77.066,9
10.0
00.0
stessa
teN
erorC
`````
stnuoma
gniyrrac
ot noitailicnoceR
**.dtL
rewoP
aubahJ
aidnI-hsedalgnaB
rewoP
eelamocnirT
ordyH
nibbiD
KSK
karavrU
natsudniH
tuyhdiV
itkahsunA
rewoP
pihsdneirF
.dtL
ynapmoC
.dtL
etavirP
rewoP
.dtL
nayasaR
dna
.dtL
magiN
.dtL
.tvP
ynapmoC
ta
sA
ta
sA
ta
sA
ta
sA
ta
sA
ta
sA
ta
sA
ta
sA
ta
sA
ta
sA
ta
sA
ta sA
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
3202
4202
3202
4202
3202
4202
3202
4202
3202
4202
3202
4202
77.522,4
77.522,4
23.503,1
52.101,2
90.1
28.0
29.701
78.701
43.653,5
20.592,7
20.0
10.0
stessa
ten gninepO
89.71
)85.011(
)24.04(
73.975
)72.0(
)13.0(
)60.0(
60.0
)40.16(
94.423,1
)10.0(
)10.0(
raey eht rof
)ssol(/tiforP
)43.1(
)63.1(
-
-
-
-
-
-
01.0
71.0
-
-
)esnepxe(/emocni
evisneherpmoc
rehtO
)00.002(
-
-
-
-
diap
sdnediviD
)20.0(
53.638
51.482
-
02.1
10.0
10.0
26.999,1
90.140,1
-
*stnemtsujda
rehtO
14.240,4
18.311,4
52.101,2
77.469,2
28.0
17.1
78.701
49.701
20.592,7
77.066,9
10.0
00.0
stessa
ten gnisolC
00.05
00.05
00.05
00.05
00.05
00.05
00.03
00.03
76.92
76.92
00.94
00.94
% ni erahs
s’puorG
12.120,2
32.569,1
36.050,1
93.284,1
14.0
68.0
63.23
83.23
34.461,2
53.668,2
00.0
00.0
RNI ni erahs
s’puorG
-
-
-
)39.72(
)39.72(
64.501
06.341
-
ICN/)sevreser
detcirtseR(/lliwdooG
12.120,2
32.569,1
36.050,1
93.284,1
14.0
68.0
34.4
54.4
98.962,2
59.900,3
-
-
tnuoma
gniyrraC
segnahc
htrow
ten
gninepo
dna
srentrap
erutnev
tnioj
eht
yb
tnemtsevni
rehtruf
fo
tnuocca
no stnemtsujda
sedulcnI
*
(iv) Commitments and contingent liabilities in respect of joint venture companies
The Group has commitments of ````` 1,503.71 crore (31 March 2023: ` 1,143.96 crore) towards further investment in the
joint venture companies as at 31 March 2024.
The Group has commitments of bank guarantee of 0.50 % of total contract price to be undertaken by NTPC-BHEL Power
Projects Private Ltd. limited to a cumulative amount of ````` 75.00 crore (31 March 2023: ` 75.00 crore).
The Group has agreed to provide sponsor undertaking to lenders for additional term loan upto ````` 1,908.38 crore (31
March 2023: ` 1,908.38) for implementation of various projects of Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited, a Joint
Venture Company.
````` Crore
Particulars As at As at
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Contingent liabilities
Share of contingent liabilities incurred jointly with 1,952.97 1,781.82
other investors of the joint venture companies
Possible reimbursements 1,047.01 223.34
Capital commitments 1,233.33 2,199.37
(v) Details of significant restrictions
In respect of investments in joint venture companies, the Group has restrictions for their disposal as under:
````` Crore
Name of the joint Period of restrictions for disposal of investments Amount invested
venture company as per related agreements as at
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Transformers and 3 years from the date of acquisition(i.e.19.06.2009) 31.34 31.34
Electricals Kerala Ltd. or upgradation capacity enhancement scheme
whichever is later. Also refer Note 6 (f).
NTPC BHEL Power 3 years from the date of completion of first EPC 50.00 50.00
Projects Private Ltd. contract of single order value of not less than
` 500 crore or till further such time as mutually
agreed. Also refer Note 6 (e).
National High Power Test 5 years from the date of incorporation (i.e. 22.05. 48.80 30.40
Laboratory Private Ltd. 2009) or completion of project whichever is later.
Also refer Note 6 (d).
CIL NTPC Urja Private Ltd. 5 years from the date of incorporation (i.e. 27.04. 0.08 0.08
2010) or commercial operation whichever is later.
Trincomalee Power 12 years from the initial operation date. 15.64 15.64
Company Ltd.
Bangladesh-India 15 years from the date of commercial operation 1,324.02 1,162.02
Friendship Power date.
Company Private Ltd.
Hindustan Urvarak & (a) 5 years from the date of incorporation 2,642.99 2,295.95
Rasayan Ltd. (15.06.2016) or 2 years from commercial operation date of any one of the proposed
projects at Sindri, Gorakhpur and Barauni or
date of allotment of shares for first time,
whichever is later.
618 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 619
erorC
`````
dedne
raey
eht
rof
ssol
dna
tiforp
fo
tnemetats
desirammuS
**.dtL
rewoP
aubahJ
aidnI-hsedalgnaB
rewoP
eelamocnirT
ordyH
nibbiD
KSK
karavrU
natsudniH
tuyhdiV
itkahsunA
rewoP
pihsdneirF
.dtL
ynapmoC
.dtL
etavirP
rewoP
.dtL
nayasaR
dna
.dtL magiN
.dtL
.tvP
ynapmoC
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
3202
4202
3202
4202
3202
4202
3202
4202
3202
4202
3202
4202
63.688
29.709,1
21.807
80.982,3
-
-
-
-
02.104,4
57.498,41
-
snoitarepo
morf
euneveR
42.91
41.96
88.1
07.42
70.0
50.0
52.0
23.0
00.84
86.29
-
00.0
emocni
rehtO
18.201
18.571
10.061
12.494
-
-
12.0
51.0
89.972
31.778
10.0
noitasitroma
dna
noitaicerpeD
60.85
87.49
07.421
94.375
-
-
-
-
36.293
31.154,1
-
esnepxe
tseretnI
-
)25.92(
-
99.01
-
-
60.0
80.0
)28.13(
80.374
-
00.0
)emocni(/esnepxe
xat
emocnI
89.71
)85.011(
)24.04(
73.975
)72.0(
)13.0(
)60.0(
60.0
)40.16(
94.423,1
)10.0(
)10.0(
raey
eht
rof
)ssol(/tiforP
)43.1(
)63.1(
-
-
-
-
-
-
01.0
71.0
-
-
)esnepxe(/emocni
evisneherpmoc
rehtO
46.61
)49.111(
)24.04(
73.975
)72.0(
)13.0(
)60.0(
60.0
)49.06(
66.423,1
)10.0(
)10.0(
)esnepxe(/emocni
evisneherpmoc
latoT
-
-
-
-
-
-
deviecer
sdnediviD
)3202
hcraM
13-
2202
rebmetpeS
50(
doirep
noitisiuqca
tsop
rof
deredisnoc
ssol
&
tiforp
fo
tnemetatS
& )2202
,rebmetpeS
5(
etad
noitisuqca
no
sa stessa
teN
gninepO
**
erorC
`````
dedne
raey
eht
rof
erutidnepxE
latipaC
fo
sliateD
.dtL
rewoP
aubahJ
aidnI-hsedalgnaB
rewoP
eelamocnirT
ordyH
nibbiD
KSK
karavrU
natsudniH
tuyhdiV
itkahsunA
rewoP
pihsdneirF
.dtL
ynapmoC
.dtL
etavirP
rewoP
.dtL
nayasaR
dna
.dtL magiN
.dtL
.tvP
ynapmoC
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
hcraM
13
3202
4202
3202
4202
3202
4202
3202
4202
3202
4202
3202
4202
95.5
49.03
84.087,8
68.489,5
-
10.0
93.0
84.5
60.436,7
46.434,51
-
,tnempiuqE
&
tnalP
,ytreporP
ot
noitiddA
)a(
cte
,stessA
elbignatnI
19.4
84.9
)06.315,6(
)47.950,5(
-
)68.1(
69.2
44.2
)36.219,2(
59.183
-
)-/+(
ssergorp
ni
krow
latipaC
ni
segnahC
)b(
-
)51.591(
)01.14(
-
-
)32.03(
)70.02(
-
nwohs
fi ,ecnavda
latipaC
ni
segnahC
)c(
)-/+(
yletarapes
05.01
24.04
37.170,2
20.488
-
)58.1(
53.3
29.7
02.196,4
25.697,51
-
-
latoT
````` Crore (b) Revision of pay scales of employees of PSEs w.e.f. 1 January 2017 has been implemented based on the guidelines
issued by Department of Public Enterprises (DPE). The guidelines provide payment of superannuation benefits @
Name of the joint Period of restrictions for disposal of investments Amount invested
30% of basic + DA to be provided to the employees of CPSEs which includes gratuity at the enhanced ceiling of
venture company as per related agreements as at
` 0.20 crore from the existing ceiling of ` 0.10 crore. As per Proviso 8(3) of Terms and Conditions of Tariff Regulations
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
2014 applicable for the period 2014-19, truing up exercise in respect of Change in Law or compliance of existing law
(b) As per Sponsors Support undertaking, NTPC will be taken up by CERC. The increase in gratuity limit from ` 0.10 crore to ` 0.20 crore falls under the category of
shall jointly and severally with the other ‘Change in law’ and a regulatory asset has been created. The Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972 has since been amended
sponsors provide additional funds to meet and the ceiling has been increased to ` 0.20 crore.
all cost overrun incurred/to be incurred in
Considering the methodology followed by the CERC for allowing impact of the previous pay revision, various tariff
relation to the Project. Further, NTPC shall
orders issued by the CERC under Regulations, 2014 and the above-mentioned provision related to the change in law
jointly with the other sponsors, retain 51%
of CERC Tariff Regulations, 2014, a regulatory asset has been created upto 31 March 2019 (Regulatory deferral
of total equity share capital of the JV and
account debit balance) towards the increase in O&M expenditure due to the pay revision. This was taken up with
management control until the final
CERC through truing up tariff petition. CERC has been allowing the same progressively and during the year, the
settlement date of the loan facility (door
expenditure has been allowed in respect of few stations and accordingly an amount of ````` 108.71 crore (31 March
to door tenure of 15 years). (Also refer
2023: ` 94.56 crore) has been adjusted and an amount of ````` 6.56 crore (31 March 2023: ` 48.43 crore) has been
Note 6(g))
reversed. Balance orders are expected in the coming years.
Jhabua Power Limited 3 years from the date of transfer (05.09.2022) 325.00 325.00
(c) CERC Regulations provide that deferred tax liability upto 31 March 2009 shall be recovered from the beneficiaries as
Total 4,437.87 3,910.43
and when the same gets materialized. Further, for the period commencing from 1 April 2014, CERC Tariff Regulations
provide for grossing up of the return on equity based on effective tax rate for the financial year based on the actual
72. Disclosure as per Ind AS 114, ‘Regulatory Deferral Accounts’
tax paid during the year on the generation income. The Company has recognised a regulatory deferral account debit
(i) Nature of rate regulated activities balance for such deferred tax liabilities (net) in the financial statements. Regulatory deferral account debit balance
for deferred tax liability for the period commencing from 1 April 2014 will be reversed in future years when the
The Group is mainly engaged in generation and sale of electricity. The price to be charged by the Group for electricity
related deferred tax liability forms part of current tax. Accordingly, an amount of ````` 2,457.53 crore (31 March 2023:
sold to its beneficiaries is determined by the CERC which provides extensive guidance on the principles and methodologies
` 1,796.22 crore) for the year ended 31 March 2024 has been accounted for as ‘Regulatory deferral account debit
for determination of the tariff for the purpose of sale of electricity. The tariff is based on allowable costs like interest,
balance’.
depreciation, operation & maintenance expenses, etc. with a stipulated return.
(d) The petition filed by the Company before CERC for reimbursement of the expenditure on transportation of ash, was
This form of rate regulation is known as cost-of-service regulations which provide the Group to recover its costs of
favourably considered by CERC vide order dated 5 November 2018 and it was allowed to reimburse the actual
providing the goods or services plus a fair return.
additional expenditure incurred towards transportation of ash in terms of MOEF notification under change in law,
(ii) Recognition and measurement
as additional O&M expenses, w.e.f. 25 January 2016 subject to prudence check. Keeping in view the above, regulatory
(a) As per the CERC Tariff Regulations, any gain or loss on account of exchange risk variation during the construction asset was created towards ash transportation expenses in respect of stations where there was shortfall in revenue
period shall form part of the capital cost till the declaration of Commercial Operation Date (COD) to be considered from sale of ash over and above ash transportation expenses till 2021-22. CERC vide order dated 28 October 2022
for calculation of tariff. The CERC during the past period in tariff orders for various stations has allowed exchange has allowed provisional monthly billing of Ash transportation expenditure from 1 April 2022 onwards and
differences incurred during the construction period in the capital cost. Accordingly, exchange differences arising reimbursement of expenditure already incurred from 1 April 2019 till 31 March 2022. An amount of ````` 4.75 crore (31
during the construction period is within the scope of Ind AS 114. March 2023: ` 90.18 crore) has been adjusted/realised based on orders received from CERC during the year relating
to period prior to 1 April 2019. Balance amount of ````` 107.18 crore (31 March 2023: ` 97.55 crore) shall be reversed
Further, any loss or gain on account of exchange differences towards interest payment and loan repayment in respect
/ adjusted upon receipt of tariff orders / true-up orders from CERC.
of the foreign currency loans taken for construction of projects shall be recoverable from/payable to beneficiaries
on actual payment basis, as per the said Regulations. Accordingly, such exchange differences are also within the (e) CERC while determining the annual fixed cost of the Tuirial Hydro Electric Project (TrHEP) of NEEPCO, a subsidiary of
scope of Ind AS 114. the Company, for the period of 30.10.2017 to 31.03.2019 by CERC, allowed depreciation @ 2% for the said purposes
in line with the decision of the Public Investment Board (PIB) of the Govt. of India. The rates and methodology as per
Any loss or gain on account of foreign currency exchange differences towards interest payment and loan repayment
the CERC tariff regulations based on which depreciation for TrHEP has been calculated and charged to the Statement
corresponding to the foreign currency loans taken for construction of the Stations shall be recoverable from/payable
of Profit & Loss vary from that allowed to recover through tariff as per the CERC order. Due to higher rate of
to beneficiaries on actual payment basis, as per the said regulation’
depreciation as per the CERC regulations, depreciation charged for the first 12 (twelve) years of operation TrHEP will
In view of the above, exchange differences arising from settlement/translation of monetary item denominated in be more than that of the depreciation recoverable through tariff, which will be reversed in future periods during
foreign currency to the extent recoverable from or payable to the beneficiaries in subsequent periods as per CERC remaining period of normative life of the generating station. Accordingly, the lower depreciation realized during the
Tariff Regulations are recognized on an undiscounted basis as ‘Regulatory deferral account debit/credit balance’ by earlier period of its operation will be recovered/adjusted during later period. In view of above, an amount of ````` 41.74
credit/debit to ‘Net Movements in Regulatory deferral account balances’ and adjusted from the year in which the crore (31 March 2023: ` 41.14 crore) being the difference of depreciation to the extent recoverable/adjustable in
same becomes recoverable from or payable to the beneficiaries. Accordingly, an amount of (-) ````` 1,239.83 crore for future period has been recognized as Regulatory deferral account debit balances.
the year ended as at 31 March 2023 has been accounted for as ‘Regulatory deferral account debit balance’ (31
(f) CERC Regulations provide that the capital expenditure in respect of existing generating station incurred /projected
March 2023: ` 1,021.81 crore accounted as ‘Regulatory deferral account debit balance’). Further, an amount of
to be incurred, inter-alia, towards liabilities to meet award of arbitration (i) within the original scope of work after
````` 51.20 crore (31 March 2023: ` 52.01 crore) has been realized/recognized during the year.
the COD upto the cut off date (Regulations 24); (ii) within the original scope of work and after the cut off date
(Regulations 25); and (iii) beyond the original scope of work (Regulation 26), will be admitted by CERC subject to
620 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 621
prudence check. Keeping in view the above, regulatory deferral account debit balance has been accounted 73. Disclosure as per Ind AS 115, ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’
corresponding to the amount debited to Statement of profit & loss in respect of arbitration cases amounting to
I. Nature of goods and services
````` 111.80 crore for the year ended 31 March 2024 (31 March 2023: ` Nil).
The revenue of the Group comprises of income from energy sales, sale of energy through trading, consultancy and other
(iii) Risks associated with future recovery/reversal of regulatory deferral account balances:
services. The following is a description of the principal activities:
(a) demand risk due to changes in consumer attitudes, the availability of alternative sources of supply.
(A) Revenue from energy sales
(b) regulatory risk on account of changes in regulations and submission or approval of a rate-setting application or the
The major revenue of the Group comes from energy sales. The Group sells electricity to bulk customers, mainly
entity’s assessment of the expected future regulatory actions.
electricity utilities owned by State Governments as well as private Discoms operating in States. Sale of electricity is
(c) other risks including currency or other market risks, if any. generally made pursuant to long-term Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) entered into with the beneficiaries.
(iv) Reconciliation of the carrying amounts: Below are the details of nature, timing of satisfaction of performance obligations and significant payment terms
under contracts for energy sales:
The regulated assets/liability recognized in the books to be recovered from or payable to beneficiaries in future periods
are as follows: Product/ Nature, timing of satisfaction of performance obligations and significant payment terms
Service
a) Regulatory deferral account debit and credit balances - Note 23 and Note 41
Energy sales The Group recognises revenue from contracts for energy sales over time as the customers
The regulatory assets recognized in the books to be recovered from the beneficiaries in future periods are as follows:
simultaneously receive and consume the benefits provided by the Group. The tariff for computing
````` Crore revenue from energy sales is determined in terms of CERC Regulations as notified from time to
Particulars For the year For the year time. The amount of revenue recognised for energy sales is adjusted for variable consideration,
ended ended wherever applicable, which are estimated based on the historical data available with the Group.
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 The amounts are billed on a monthly basis and are payable within contractually agreed credit
period. In case of power station which are not governed by CERC tariff regulations, revenue is
A. Opening balance 12,548.66 13,199.17
recognized based on agreement entered with beneficiaries.
B. Additions during the year 1,379.06 (269.07)
C. Amount realized/recognized during the year (164.67) (236.73) (B) Revenue from energy trading, consultancy and other services
D. Regulatory deferral account balances recognized in the statement of 1,214.39 (505.80)
(i) Sale of Energy through trading
profit and loss (B+C)
(a) The Group is purchasing power from the developers and selling it to the Discoms on principal to principal basis.
E. Adjustments during the year (206.85) (144.71)
Below are the details of nature, timing of satisfaction of performance obligations and significant payment terms
F. Closing balance (A+D+E) 13,556.20 12,548.66
under contracts for sale of energy through trading:
b) Net movements in regulatory deferral account balances [I] Product/ Nature, timing of satisfaction of performance obligations and significant payment terms
````` Crore Service
Particulars For the year For the year Energy trading The Group recognises revenue from contracts for sale of energy through trading over time as the
ended ended (principal to customers simultaneously receive and consume the benefits provided by the Group. The tariff
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 principal basis) for computing revenue from sale of energy through trading is determined as per the terms of the
Exchange differences (1,239.83) 1,021.81 agreements. The amount of revenue recognised is adjusted for variable consideration, wherever
applicable, which are estimated based on the historical data available with the Group. The amounts
Deferred tax 2,457.53 1,796.22
are billed on a monthly basis and are payable within contractually agreed credit period.
Ash transportation cost 14.38 (3,079.81)
Pay Revision (6.56) (48.43) (b) For some of its revenue arrangements, the Group has determined that it is acting as an agent and has recognized
Arbitration cases 111.80 - revenue on such contracts net of power purchase cost based on the following factors:
Others 41.74 41.14 a. Another party is primarily responsible for fulfilling the contract as the Group does not have the ability to
Sub total (i) 1,379.06 (269.07) direct the use of energy supplied or obtain benefits from supply of power.
Amount realized/ recognized during the year (ii) (164.67) (236.73) b. The Group does not have inventory risk before or after the power has been delivered to customers as the
Net movement in regulatory deferral account balances (i)+(ii) 1,214.39 (505.80) power is directly supplied to customer.
c) Tax on net movements in regulatory deferral account balances [II] 214.19 (92.68) c. The Group has no discretion in establishing the price for supply of power. The Group’s consideration in
these contracts is only based on the difference between sales price charged to procurer and purchase price
d) Total amount recognized in the statement of profit and loss during 1,000.20 (413.12)
given to supplier.
the year [I-II]
The Company expects to recover the carrying amount of regulatory deferral account debit balance over the life of the
projects.
622 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 623
Below are the details of nature, timing of satisfaction of performance obligations and significant payment terms
Product/ Nature, timing of satisfaction of performance obligations and significant payment terms
under contracts for sale of energy through trading on agency nature:
Service
Product/ Nature, timing of satisfaction of performance obligations and significant payment terms Deen Dayal The Group recognises revenue from work done under DDUGJY scheme over time as the assets do
Service Upadhyay not have alternative use to the Group and the Group has enforceable right to payment for
Energy trading The Group recognises revenue from such arrangements over time on net basis when the units of Gramin Jyoti performance completed to date. The revenue from DDUGJY scheme is determined as per the
(agency electricity are delivered to power procurers as the procurers simultaneously receive and consume Yojna (DDUGJY terms of the contract. There is no component of variable consideration under the contract. The
nature) the benefits from the Group’s agency services. The amount of revenue recognised is adjusted for Scheme) amounts are billed as per the terms of the contracts and are payable within contractually agreed
variable consideration, wherever applicable, which are estimated based on the historical data credit period.
available with the Group. The amounts are billed as per the terms of the contracts. Pradhan The Group recognises revenue from work done under SAUBHAGYA scheme at a point in time
Mantri Sahaj when the Group transfers control of goods and services under the contract to the customers. The
(c) The Group carries out energy trading operations on commission basis. NVVN, a subsidiary of the Parent Company
Bijli Har Ghar revenue from SAUBHAGYA scheme is determined as per the terms of the contracts. There is no
is a “Trader Member” of India Energy Exchange Ltd. (IEX) & Power Exchange India Ltd (PXIL) and undertakes
Yojna component of variable consideration under the contract. The amounts are billed as per the terms
trading of Power and REC on Power Exchange Platform of IEX and PXIL.
(SAUBHAGYA of the contracts and are payable within contractually agreed credit period.
Below are the details of nature, timing of satisfaction of performance obligations and significant payment terms Scheme)
under contracts for sale of energy through trading on energy exchange:
Product/ Nature, timing of satisfaction of performance obligations and significant payment terms II. Disaggregation of revenue
Service
In the following table, revenue is disaggregated by type of product and services, geographical market and timing of
Energy trading The Group recognises revenue from contracts for commission for trading on energy exchange revenue recognition:
on energy over time as the customers simultaneously receive and consume the benefits provided by the ````` Crore
exchange Group’s performance. The commission for trading of energy is determined as per the terms of Particulars Generation of energy Others Total
the respective agreement. The amount of revenue recognised is adjusted for variable
For the year ended For the year ended For the year ended
consideration, wherever applicable, which are estimated based on the historical data available
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March
with the Group. The amounts are billed as per the terms of the contracts.
2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
(ii) Consultancy and other services Geographical markets
India 1,67,246.59 1,65,714.59 8,015.42 6,992.73 1,75,262.01 1,72,707.32
The Group undertakes consultancy and turnkey project contracts for domestic and international clients in the different
phases of power plants viz. engineering, project management & supervision, construction management, operation Outside India - - 1,379.70 1,276.79 1,379.70 1,276.79
& maintenance of power plants, research & development, management consultancy etc. 1,67,246.59 1,65,714.59 9,395.12 8,269.52 1,76,641.71 1,73,984.11
Below are the details of nature, timing of satisfaction of performance obligations and significant payment terms Timing of revenue recognition
under contracts for consultancy and other services: Products and services 1,67,246.59 1,65,714.59 9,395.12 8,269.52 1,76,641.71 1,73,984.11
transferred over time
Product/ Nature, timing of satisfaction of performance obligations and significant payment terms
Service 1,67,246.59 1,65,714.59 9,395.12 8,269.52 1,76,641.71 1,73,984.11
Consultancy The Group recognises revenue from contracts for consultancy services over time as the customers
III. Reconciliation of revenue recognised with contract price:
services simultaneously receive and consume the benefits provided by the Group. For the assets (e.g.
````` Crore
deliverables, reports etc.) transferred under the contracts, the assets do not have alternative use
to the Group and the Group has enforceable right to payment for performance completed to Particulars For the year For the year
date. The revenue from consultancy services is determined as per the terms of the contracts. The ended ended
amount of revenue recognised is adjusted for variable consideration, wherever applicable, which 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
are estimated based on the historical data available with the Group. The amounts are billed as Contract price 1,77,490.50 1,74,875.03
per the terms of the contracts and are payable within contractually agreed credit period.
Adjustments for:
Operation and The Group recognises revenue from contracts for operation and maintenance services over time Rebates (848.79) (890.92)
maintenance as the customers simultaneously receive and consume the benefits provided by the Group. The
Revenue recognised 1,76,641.71 1,73,984.11
services revenue from operation and maintenance services is determined as per the terms of the contracts.
The amount of revenue recognised is adjusted for variable consideration, wherever applicable,
IV. Contract balances
which are estimated based on the historical data available with the Group. The amounts are
billed as per the terms of the contracts and are payable within contractually agreed credit period. Contract assets are recognised when there is excess of revenue earned over billings on contracts. Contract assets are
transferred to trade receivables revenue when there is unconditional right to receive cash, and only passage of time is
required, as per contractual terms. The contract liabilities primarily relate to the advance consideration received from
the customers which are referred as ‘advances from customers / payable to beneficiaries’.
624 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 625
The following table provides information about trade receivables including unbilled revenue, contract assets and advances (d) The Group has taken certain vehicles (other than electrical) on lease for a period of more than one year to four
from customers/payable to beneficiaries: years, which can be further extended at mutually agreed terms. There are no escalations in the lease rentals as per
````` Crore terms of the agreement. However, the Group has purchase option for some of such vehicles at the end of the lease
term.
Particulars As at 31 March 2024 As at 31 March 2023
Current Non-current Current Non-current (e) The Group had entered into an agreement for movement of coal through inland waterways for one of its stations. As
per the agreement, the operator was to design, finance, build, operate and maintain the unloading and material
Trade receivables including unbilled revenue 33,349.68 1,287.54 30,112.41 2,638.68
handling infrastructure for 7 years after which it was to be transferred to the Company at ` 1/-. Refer Note no.
Contract assets 10,992.65 - 7,306.43 - 64(iii)(b).
Advances from customers/payable to beneficiaries 1,763.30 - 1,914.28 -
(f) The Group acquires land on leasehold basis for a period generally ranging from 5 years to 99 years from the
The amount of revenue recognised from performance obligations satisfied (or partially satisfied) in previous periods, government authorities which can be renewed further based on mutually agreed terms and conditions. The leases
mainly due to change in transaction prices is ````` 2,281.34 crore (31 March 2023 : ` 5,092.94 crore). are non cancellable. These leases are capitalised at the present value of the total minimum lease payments to be
paid over the lease term. Future lease rentals are recognised as ‘Lease liabilities’ at their present values. The Right-
V. Transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations
of-use land is amortised considering the material accounting policies of the Group.
Performance obligations related to sale of energy:
(ii) The following are the carrying amounts of lease liabilities recognised and the movements during the year:
Revenue from sale of energy is accounted for based on tariff rates approved by the CERC (except items indicated as ````` Crore
provisional) as modified by the orders of Appellate Tribunal for Electricity to the extent applicable. In case of power
Particulars For the year For the year
stations, where the tariff rates are yet to be approved/items indicated provisional by the CERC in their orders, provisional
ended ended
rates are adopted considering the applicable CERC Tariff Regulations. Revenue from sale of energy is recognized once
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
the electricity has been delivered to the beneficiary and is measured through a regular review of usage meters.
Opening Balance 1,820.79 1,151.30
Beneficiaries are billed on a periodic and regular basis. Therefore, transaction price to be allocated to remaining
performance obligations cannot be determined reliably for the entire duration of the contract. - Additions in lease liabilities 267.95 784.66
- Interest cost during the year 132.83 114.93
Performance obligations related to other contracts:
- Payment of lease liabilities (130.89) (230.10)
For rest of the contracts, transaction price for remaining performance obligations amounts to ````` 484.21 crore (31 March
Closing Balance 2,090.68 1,820.79
2023: ` 1,082.32 crore) which shall be received over the contract period in proportion of the work performed/services
provided by the Group. Current 252.85 216.75
VI. Practical expedients applied as per Ind AS 115: Non Current 1,837.83 1,604.04
a. The Group has not disclosed information about remaining performance obligations that have original expected
(iii) Maturity Analysis of the lease liabilities:
duration of one year or less and where the revenue recognised corresponds directly with the value to the customer
````` Crore
of the entity’s performance completed to date.
Contractual undiscounted cash flows As at As at
b. The Group does not expect to have any contracts where the period between the transfer of the promised goods or 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
services to the customer and payment by the customer exceeds one year. As a consequence, the Group has not
3 months or less 171.72 150.51
adjusted any of the transaction prices for the time value of money. The impact of subsequent modifications are duly
recognized in the Statement of profit and loss. 3-12 Months 110.56 75.45
1-2 Years 131.81 98.68
VII. The Group has not incurred any incremental costs of obtaining contracts with a customer and therefore, not recognised
an asset for such costs. 2-5 Years 401.75 236.26
More than 5 Years 4,943.17 2,590.16
74. Disclosure as per Ind AS 116 ‘Leases’
Total Lease liabilities 5,759.01 3,151.06
(A) Group as Lessee
(iv) The following are the amounts recognised in profit or loss:
(i) The Group’s significant leasing arrangements are in respect of the following assets:
````` Crore
(a) Premises for residential use of employees, offices and guest houses/ transit camps on lease which are not non-
Particulars For the year For the year
cancellable and are usually renewable on mutually agreeable terms. The company generally incurs amount on
ended ended
improvements which are significant to the respective lease and hence the cancellable period of the lease during
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
which the company intends to continue considering the past experience / practice, is considered for the purpose of
Depreciation and amortisation expense for right-of-use assets 364.03 331.69
determining the lease period.
Interest expense on lease liabilities 132.83 114.93
(b) The Group has taken electrical vehicles on operating lease for a period of five to six years, which can be further
extended at mutually agreed terms. Lease rentals are subject to escalation of 10% per annum. Expense relating to short-term leases 49.17 49.40
(c) A helicopter on wet lease basis.
626 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 627
(v) The following are the amounts disclosed in the cash flow statement: The following are the amounts recognised in profit or loss:
````` Crore ````` Crore
Particulars For the year For the year Particulars For the year For the year
ended ended ended ended
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Cash Outflow from leases 180.06 279.50 Lease Income 19.58 19.58
Income relating to variable lease payments that do not depend on an index 84.12 84.80
(B) Leases as lessor
or a rate
a) Finance leases
Undiscounted lease payments to be received on an annual basis for a minimum of each of the first five years and for the
The Company had classified the arrangement with its customer for Stage I of a power station in the nature of lease based
remaining years:
on the principles enunciated in Appendix C of Ind AS 17 - ‘Leases’ and accounted for as finance lease in accordance with
````` Crore
those principles. This arrangement continues to be classified as finance lease after transition to Ind AS 116 - ‘Leases’.
Particulars As at As at
The power purchase agreement with the beneficiary is for a period of twenty five years from the date of transfer and the
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
agreement may be mutually extended, renewed or replaced by another agreement on such terms and for such further
period of time as the parties may mutually agree. Less than one year 3.91 19.58
Between one and two years - 3.91
The following are the amounts recognised in profit or loss:
````` Crore Between two and three years - -
Particulars For the year For the year Total 3.91 23.49
ended ended
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 (2) Land given on operating lease
i) Finance income on the net investment in the lease 23.81 32.53
The Group has entered into two leases agreements with one of the vendor for right to use of freehold land of 24.50 acre
ii) Income relating to variable lease payments not included 1,060.01 1,159.32 and 67.73 acre for the period of two years w.e.f. from 25 January 2021 and 21 August 2021 respectively. The Group
in the measurement of the net investment in the lease continues to classify the same as operating lease.
The following are the amounts recognised in profit or loss:
Undiscounted lease payments to be received on an annual basis for a minimum of each of the first five years and for the
````` Crore
remaining years:
````` Crore Particulars For the year For the year
ended ended
Particulars As at As at
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Lease Income 2.36 2.20
Less than one year 218.38 108.54
Income relating to variable lease payments that do not depend on an index - -
Between one and two years - 215.90
or a rate
Between two and three years - -
Total minimum lease payments 218.38 324.44 Undiscounted lease payments to be received on an annual basis for a minimum of each of the first five years and for the
remaining years:
Less amounts representing unearned finance income 7.37 39.25
````` Crore
Present value of minimum lease payments 211.01 285.19
Particulars As at As at
b) Operating leases 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Less than one year 2.26 1.28
The Company had classified the arrangement with its customer for one gas power station as lease based on the principles
enunciated in Appendix C of Ind AS 17 and accounted for as operating lease in accordance with those principles. These Between one and two years 0.68 0.52
arrangements continue to be classified as operating lease after transition to Ind AS 116 ‘Leases’.
Total 2.94 1.80
(i) Gas Power Station
(3) Buses given on operating lease
PPA signed with the beneficiary on 6 January 1995 was operative for five years from the date of commercial operation of
last unit of the station and may be mutually extended, renewed or replaced by another agreement on such terms and on The Group has entered into an agreement with Directorate of Transport (DoT), Andaman and Nicobar administration &
such further period of time as the parties may mutually agree. As per the supplementary agreement dated 15 February Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) to supply (operate and maintain in case of BMTC) the fully built
2013 the validity period is extended for a further period of 12 years from 1 March 2013. AC electric buses for a period of 10 years on fixed hire charges per Km per bus. In addition, the Group has also install,
commissioned and shall maintain necessary charging infrastructure at its depots and identified routes, wherever necessary.
The Group has classified these arrangement with customers as operating lease as per Ind AS 116 because it does not
transfer substantially all the risk and rewards incidental to the ownership of the assets.
628 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 629
The following are the amounts recognised in profit or loss: ````` Crore
````` Crore
Name of the entity in the Group Net Assets, i.e., total Share in profit or loss Share in other Share in total
Particulars For the year For the year assets minus total for the year ended comprehensive income comprehensive income
ended ended liabilities as at for the year ended for the year ended
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 As % age of Amount As % age of Amount As % age of Amount As % age of Amount
consolidated consolidated consolidated total
Lease Income 43.35 36.48
net assets profit or loss other comprehensive
comprehensive income
Undiscounted lease payments to be received on an annual basis for a minimum of each of the first five years and for the income
remaining years:
NTPC Mining Ltd.
````` Crore
31 March 2024 0.09% 150.67 -0.02% (3.42) 0.00% -0.02% (3.42)
Particulars As at As at
31 March 2023 0.00% 0.04 0.00% (0.01) 0.00% - 0.00% (0.01)
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
THDC India Ltd.
Less than one year 43.01 42.49
31 March 2024 6.39% 10,543.98 2.80% 596.97 39.58% (9.74) 2.76% 587.23
Between one and two years 43.31 42.71 31 March 2023 6.91% 10,427.64 3.93% 672.84 1.24% (2.52) 3.96% 670.32
Between two and three years 43.61 43.01 North Eastern Electric Power
Corporation Ltd.
Between three and four years 43.91 43.31
31 March 2024 4.16% 6,871.40 2.57% 548.14 65.30% (16.07) 2.50% 532.07
Between four and five years 44.22 43.61
31 March 2023 4.37% 6,589.33 2.32% 396.91 2.61% (5.30) 2.31% 391.61
More than five years 140.02 182.90
NTPC EDMC Waste Solutions
Total 358.08 398.03 Private Ltd.
31 March 2024 0.00% (3.34) 0.00% (0.02) 0.00% - 0.00% (0.02)
75. Disclosure as per Schedule III to the Companies Act,2013 31 March 2023 0.00% (3.32) 0.00% (0.56) 0.00% - 0.00% (0.56)
````` Crore NTPC Renewable Energy Ltd.
Name of the entity in the Group Net Assets, i.e., total Share in profit or loss Share in other Share in total 31 March 2024 0.00% - 0.00% - 0.00% - 0.00% -
assets minus total for the year ended comprehensive income comprehensive income 31 March 2023 0.00% - 0.00% - 0.00% - 0.00% -
liabilities as at for the year ended for the year ended
Ratnagiri Gas & Power Private Ltd.
As % age of Amount As % age of Amount As % age of Amount As % age of Amount
31 March 2024 1.01% 1,664.70 8.13% 1,734.23 0.00% - 8.14% 1,734.23
consolidated consolidated consolidated total
31 March 2023 -0.05% (69.53) -1.17% (199.94) 0.00% - -1.18% (199.94)
net assets profit or loss other comprehensive
comprehensive income NTPC Green Energy Ltd.
income (w.e.f. 07 April 2022)
Parent 31 March 2024 3.77% 6,232.13 1.61% 342.86 0.00% - 1.61% 342.86
NTPC Limited 31 March 2023 3.24% 4,889.58 1.01% 173.37 0.00% - 1.02% 173.37
31 March 2024 90.77% 1,49,885.02 84.75% 18,079.39 -62.01% 15.26 84.92% 18,094.65 Non-controlling interests in all subsidiaries
31 March 2023 92.01% 1,38,889.88 100.44% 17,196.73 37.29% (75.70) 101.20% 17,121.03 31 March 2024 2.67% 4,413.01 2.44% 520.56 10.08% (2.48) 2.43% 518.08
Subsidiaries (Indian) 31 March 2023 2.60% 3,930.45 1.22% 208.80 0.32% (0.64) 1.23% 208.16
Bhartiya Rail Bijlee Company Ltd. Joint ventures
(Investment as per equity method)
31 March 2024 1.83% 3,022.83 2.42% 517.01 0.00% - 2.43% 517.01
Indian
31 March 2023 1.91% 2,877.99 1.45% 248.14 -0.02% 0.05 1.47% 248.19
Utility Powertech Ltd.
NTPC Vidyut Vyapar Nigam Ltd.
31 March 2024 0.07% 110.03 -0.01% (2.88) -40.15% 9.88 0.03% 7.00
31 March 2024 0.52% 854.40 0.75% 160.94 0.00% - 0.76% 160.94
31 March 2023 0.07% 103.03 0.10% 16.30 -1.01% 2.06 0.11% 18.36
31 March 2023 0.48% 718.96 1.03% 175.89 0.00% - 1.04% 175.89
NTPC-GE Power Services Private Ltd.
NTPC Electric Supply Company Ltd.
31 March 2024 0.01% 15.27 0.03% 6.34 0.33% (0.08) 0.03% 6.26
31 March 2024 0.01% 20.31 0.00% 0.04 0.00% - 0.00% 0.04
31 March 2023 0.01% 9.31 0.01% 2.02 0.06% (0.13) 0.01% 1.89
31 March 2023 0.01% 20.27 0.00% 0.25 0.00% - 0.00% 0.25
NTPC-SAIL Power Company Ltd.
Patratu Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Ltd.
31 March 2024 0.96% 1,580.44 1.02% 217.92 6.46% (1.59) 1.02% 216.33
31 March 2024 1.77% 2,922.48 0.00% (0.01) 0.00% - 0.00% (0.01)
31 March 2023 0.95% 1,439.11 1.37% 235.17 -0.16% 0.33 1.39% 235.50
31 March 2023 1.46% 2,210.43 0.00% (0.51) 0.00% - 0.00% (0.51)
630 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 631
````` Crore ````` Crore
Name of the entity in the Group Net Assets, i.e., total Share in profit or loss Share in other Share in total Name of the entity in the Group Net Assets, i.e., total Share in profit or loss Share in other Share in total
assets minus total for the year ended comprehensive income comprehensive income assets minus total for the year ended comprehensive income comprehensive income
liabilities as at for the year ended for the year ended liabilities as at for the year ended for the year ended
As % age of Amount As % age of Amount As % age of Amount As % age of Amount As % age of Amount As % age of Amount As % age of Amount As % age of Amount
consolidated consolidated consolidated total consolidated consolidated consolidated total
net assets profit or loss other comprehensive net assets profit or loss other comprehensive
comprehensive income comprehensive income
income income
NTPC-Tamil Nadu Energy Company Ltd. Foreign
31 March 2024 1.18% 1,947.14 1.38% 293.41 -0.04% 0.01 1.38% 293.42 Trincomalee Power Company Ltd.
31 March 2023 1.26% 1,898.93 2.48% 424.10 -0.01% 0.02 2.51% 424.12 31 March 2024 0.00% 0.86 0.00% (0.16) 0.00% - 0.00% (0.16)
Aravali Power Company Private Ltd. 31 March 2023 0.00% 0.41 0.00% (0.13) 0.00% - 0.00% (0.13)
31 March 2024 1.48% 2,449.75 1.77% 376.92 0.45% (0.11) 1.77% 376.81 Bangladesh-India Friendship
31 March 2023 1.62% 2,447.94 1.47% 251.28 -0.07% 0.15 1.49% 251.43 Power Company Private Ltd.
NTPC BHEL Power Projects Private Ltd. 31 March 2024 0.90% 1,482.39 1.36% 289.68 0.00% - 1.36% 289.68
31 March 2024 0.00% - 0.00% - 0.00% - 0.00% - 31 March 2023 0.70% 1,050.63 -0.12% (20.20) 0.00% - -0.12% (20.20)
31 March 2023 0.00% - 0.00% - 0.00% - 0.00% - Intra Group Eliminations
Meja Urja Nigam Private Ltd. 31 March 2024 -22.16% (36,586.22) -13.12% (2,799.84) 70.17% (17.27) -13.22% (2,817.11)
31 March 2024 1.16% 1,923.18 0.82% 174.05 0.08% (0.02) 0.82% 174.03 31 March 2023 -21.72% (32,780.19) -14.78% (2,530.33) 59.50% (120.78) -15.67% (2,651.11)
31 March 2023 1.13% 1,707.23 0.25% 42.93 0.00% - 0.25% 42.93 Total
Transformers and Electricals Kerala Ltd. 31 March 2024 100.00% 1,65,122.28 100.00% 21,332.45 100.00% -24.61 100.00% 21,307.84
31 March 2024 0.00% 5.47 -0.01% (1.94) 0.00% -0.01% (1.94) 31 March 2023 100.00% 1,50,953.62 100.00% 17,121.35 100.00% -203.00 100.00% 16,918.35
31 March 2023 0.00% 7.41 -0.09% (16.05) 0.00% - -0.09% (16.05)
76. Contingent liabilities and commitments
National High Power Test Laboratory
Pvt. Ltd. A. Contingent liabilities
31 March 2024 0.01% 12.32 -0.03% (6.08) 0.00% -0.03% (6.08)
a. Claims against the group not acknowledged as debts
31 March 2023 0.00% - -0.08% (14.24) 0.00% - -0.08% (14.24)
(i) Capital works
Energy Efficiency Services Ltd.
````` Crore
31 March 2024 0.38% 624.35 -0.23% (49.37) 7.19% (1.77) -0.24% (51.14)
Particulars As at As at
31 March 2023 0.19% 292.49 -0.78% (132.76) -0.05% 0.10 -0.78% (132.66)
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
CIL NTPC Urja Private Ltd.
Claims by contractors under capital works 18,181.37 17,308.02
31 March 2024 0.00% 0.08 0.00% 0.02 0.00% - 0.00% 0.02
31 March 2023 0.00% 0.07 0.00% 0.06 0.00% - 0.00% 0.06 Some of the contractors for supply and installation of equipment and execution of works at our projects have lodged
Anushakti Vidhyut Nigam Ltd. claims on the Group for the above amounts seeking enhancement of the contract price, revision of work schedule with
price escalation, compensation for the extended period of work, idle charges etc. These claims are being contested by
31 March 2024 0.00% - 0.00% - 0.00% - 0.00% -
the Group as being not admissible in terms of the provisions of the respective contracts.
31 March 2023 0.00% - 0.00% (0.01) 0.00% - 0.00% (0.01)
Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Ltd. The Group is pursuing various options under the dispute resolution mechanism available in the contracts for settlement
of these claims. It is not practicable to make a realistic estimate of the outflow of resources if any, for settlement of such
31 March 2024 1.82% 3,009.95 1.84% 392.97 -0.20% 0.05 1.84% 393.02
claims pending resolution.
31 March 2023 1.50% 2,269.89 -0.11% (18.10) -0.01% 0.03 -0.11% (18.07)
Jhabua Power Ltd. The Group has made counter-claims against some of these claims which are before various authorities for adjudication
/ settlement. It is impracticable to estimate the financial effect of the same as its receipt is dependent on the outcome
31 March 2024 1.19% 1,965.23 -0.26% (55.30) 2.76% (0.68) -0.26% (55.98)
of the litigation / settlement which is not wholly within the control of the Group.
31 March 2023 1.34% 2,021.21 0.06% 9.42 0.33% (0.67) 0.05% 8.75
KSK Dibbin Hydro Power Private Ltd.
31 March 2024 0.00% 4.45 0.00% 0.02 0.00% - 0.00% 0.02
31 March 2023 0.00% 4.43 0.00% (0.02) 0.00% - 0.00% (0.02)
632 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 633
(ii) Land compensation cases c. Others
````` Crore ````` Crore
Particulars As at As at Particulars As at As at
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Claims by land oustees 620.05 692.05 (i) Coal transportation [Refer Note 64(iii)(b)] 1,870.55 2,431.04
In respect of land acquired for the projects, the erstwhile land owners have claimed higher compensation before various (ii) Others 4,481.02 3,856.81
authorities/courts which are yet to be settled. Against such cases, contingent liability of these amounts has been estimated.
Others include contingent liabilities disclosed on an estimated basis relating to likely claims that may arise in connection
(iii) Fuel suppliers with abandoned oil exploration activities, land use agreements, service tax reimbursements,stamp duty arising out of
````` Crore merger, transfer of operations of subsidiary, etc.
Particulars As at As at In respect of NTPC Vidyut Vyapar Nigam Ltd., a subsidiary of the Company, electricity supplied by the sellers under SWAP
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 arrangements of 427.90 MUs (31 March 2023: 254.30 MUs) are yet to be returned for which the amount is not
ascertainable.
Claims towards grade slippages 1,817.81 1,638.71
Other claims 1,516.40 2,674.92 Some of the beneficiaries have filed appeals against the tariff orders of the CERC. The amount of contingent liability in
this regard is not ascertainable.
Pending resolution of issues with the coal companies through AMRCD (Alternate Mechanism for Resolution of CPSE
In respect of the disputed cases at sl.no.(ii) above, the Company estimate possible reimbursement of ````` 1,128.85 crore
Disputes), claims towards grade slippage pertaining to period prior to appointment of CIMFR (Central India Mining and
(31 March 2023: ` 1,090.46 crore).
Fuel Research) for joint sampling pursuant to tripartite agreement, has been estimated by the Company as contingent
liability. Further, other claims represent claims made by fuel companies towards surface transportation charges, custom d. Joint venture companies
duty on service margin on imported coal, take or pay claims of gas suppliers, etc., estimated by the Company as contingent
Refer Note 71 for contingent liability relating to joint venture companies.
liability.
The Group is pursuing with the fuel companies, related ministries and other options under the dispute resolution B. Contingent assets
mechanism available for settlement of these claims.
(i) While determining the tariff for some of the Parent Company’s power stations, CERC has disallowed certain capital
(iv) Others expenditure incurred by the Parent Company. The Parent Company aggrieved over such issues has filed appeals
````` Crore with the Appellate Tribunal for Electricity (APTEL)/Hon’ble Supreme Court against the tariff orders issued by the
Particulars As at As at CERC. Based on past experience, the Parent Company believes that a favourable outcome is probable. However, it is
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 impracticable to estimate the financial effect of the same as its receipt is dependent on the outcome of the judgement.
Claims by government agencies 2,437.75 2,355.20 (ii) Coal companies have disputed some of the grade slippages confirmed by CIMFR(third party sampler) in favour of
the Company and have approached referee challenging the CIMFR results. The referee results are binding on both
In respect of claims (including applicable interest) made by various State/Central Government departments/Authorities
the parties. Considering the uncertainty involved in the outcome of referee results, the Company has not recognised
towards building permission fee, penalty on diversion of agricultural land to non-agricultural use, non agricultural land
claims arising out of favourable CIMFR results pending receipt of referee results challenged by the coal companies,
assessment tax, water royalty, other claims, etc. and by others, contingent liability of the above amounts has been
considering the provisions of Ind AS 37. It is impracticable to estimate the financial effect of the same as its receipt
estimated.
is dependent on the outcome of the referee results which is wholly not within the control of the Company. Not
(v) Possible reimbursement in respect of (i) to (iii) above withstanding the above, the outcome of the referee results shall be dealt with as per the provisions of CERC Tariff
Regulations.
In respect of claims included in (i) and (ii) above, payments, if any, by the Group on settlement of the claims would be
eligible for inclusion in the capital cost for the purpose of determination of tariff as per CERC Tariff Regulations subject (iii) CERC (Terms & Conditions of Tariff) Regulations 2019-24 provide for levy of Late Payment Surcharge by generating
to prudence check by the CERC. In case of (iii), the estimated possible reimbursement by way of recovery through tariff company in case of delay in payment by beneficiaries beyond 45 days from the date of presentation of bill. However,
as per Regulations is ````` 4,422.77 crore (31 March 2023: ` 4,253.80 crore). in view of significant uncertainties in the ultimate collection from some of the beneficiaries against partial bills as
resolved by the management, an amount of ````` 661.35 crore as at 31 March 2024 (31 March 2023: ` 754.90 crore) has
b. Disputed tax matters not been recognised.
````` Crore
C. Commitments
Particulars As at As at
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 a) Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital account (property, plant & equipment and
Tax matters before various authorities 1,924.73 2,801.47 intangible assets) and not provided for is as under:
````` Crore
Disputed income tax/sales tax/excise and other tax matters are pending before various Appellate Authorities. Many of
Particulars As at As at
these matters were adjudicated in favour of the Group but are disputed before higher authorities by the concerned
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
departments. In respect of these disputed cases, the Group estimate possible reimbursement of ````` 431.85 crore (31
March 2023: ` 142.97 crore). The amount paid under dispute/adjusted by the authorities in respect of the cases amounts Property, plant and equipment 82,743.21 60,966.62
to ````` 564.41 crore (31 March 2023: ` 779.21 crore). Intangible assets 44.36 45.91
Total 82,787.57 61,012.53
634 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 635
b) In respect the following investments, the Group has restrictions for their disposal as at 31 March 2024 as under: v) (b) Capital-Work-in Progress (CWIP) - Completion schedule for projects overdue or cost overruns as compared to
original plan as on 31 March 2024
````` Crore
````` Crore
Name of the Company Period of restrictions for disposal of investments Amount invested
Capital-Work-in Progress (CWIP) To be completed in Total
as per related agreements as at
Less than 1-2 years 2-3 years More than
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
1 year 3 years
International Coal 5 years from the date of incorporation (i.e. 20.05. 1.40 1.40
Upto 31 1 April 2025 to 1 April 2026 to Beyond
Ventures Private Ltd. 2009) or till such time an undertaking for non-
March 2025 31 March 2026 31 March 2027 1 April 2027
disposal of such share is given to FI/Banks for
their assistance to the Company whichever is North Karanpura TPP (1X660 MW) 3,730.97 - - - 3,730.97
later. Also refer Note Barh-I TPP (1X660 MW) 5,557.38 - - - 5,557.38
Total 1.40 1.40
Tapovan HEP (4X130 MW) - 6,265.86 - - 6,265.86
Rammam Hydro Electric (3X40 MW) - - - 905.43 905.43
c) Group’s commitment towards the minimum work programme in respect of oil exploration activities of joint operations
has been disclosed in Note 66. Chatti Bariatu Coal Mining Project 574.76 - - - 574.76
e) Refer Note 71 for commitments relating to joint venture companies. Kerandari Coal Mining Project - 1,150.54 - - 1,150.54
Badam Coal Mining Project - - 47.92 - 47.92
77. Additional Regulatory Information
Anta Solar (90 MW) 399.60 - - - 399.60
i) The Group does not hold any Investment Property in its books of accounts, so fair valuation of investment property is not
Rihand Solar (20 MW) 34.35 - - - 34.35
applicable.
Solapur Solar (13 MW) 30.94 - - - 30.94
ii) During the year the Group has not revalued any of its Property,plant and equipment.
Nokh Solar (735 MW) 918.22 - - - 918.22
iii) During the year, the Group has not revalued any of its Intangible assets.
PSP (1000 MW) 569.00 - - - 569.00
iv) The Group has not granted any loans or advances to promoters, directors, KMP’s and the related parties that are repayable
VPHEP (444 MW) 1,279.44 800.00 476.51 - 2,555.95
on demand or without specifying any terms or period of repayment.
PVUNL Stage-1 12,632.63 - - - 12,632.63
v) (a) Capital-Work-in Progress (CWIP) - Ageing Schedule as at 31 March 2024
````` Crore BRBCL 796.83 - - - 796.83
Capital-Work-in Progress (CWIP) Amount in CWIP for a period of Total Sambhu Ki Bhurj II Solar PV 225.82 - - - 225.82
Less than 1-2 years 2-3 years More than Project 150 MW
1 year 3 years
Bhainsara 320 MW 899.25 - - - 899.25
Projects in progress 28,100.77 19,085.39 15,134.95 25,150.19 87,471.30
GUVNL 200 MW 541.25 - - - 541.25
Projects temporarily suspended 0.63 24.68 0.02 96.17 121.50
GUVNL 150 MW 459.71 - - - 459.71
Shajapur 325 MW 1,120.37 - - - 1,120.37
Capital-Work-in Progress (CWIP) - Ageing Schedule as at 31 March 2023
````` Crore Dayapar 200 MW 177.61 - - - 177.61
Capital-Work-in Progress (CWIP) Amount in CWIP for a period of Total SECI TR-IV - 450 MW 968.51 - - - 968.51
Less than 1-2 years 2-3 years More than 500 MW Bhadla 1,124.62 - - - 1,124.62
1 year 3 years
CPSU 1255 MW 965.67 - - - 965.67
Projects in progress 23,697.70 18,752.51 11,991.27 34,573.32 89,014.80
SECI TR-V - 450 MW - 7.41 - - 7.41
Projects temporarily suspended 24.09 - - 94.23 118.32
1200 MW Khavada - 150.58 - - 150.58
Waste to Energy* Project: Varanasi 192.01 - - - 192.01
Waste to Energy Project: Punjab 5.01 - - - 5.01
636 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 637
Capital-Work-in Progress (CWIP) - Completion schedule for projects overdue or cost overruns as compared to original vi) (b) Intangible assets under development - Completion schedule for projects overdue or cost overruns as compared to
plan as on 31 March 2023 original plan as on 31 March 2024.
````` Crore
vii) No proceedings have been initiated or pending against the Group under the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act,1988.
Capital-Work-in Progress (CWIP) To be completed in Total
viii) The quarterly returns / statement of current assets filed by the Group with banks / financial institutions are generally in
Less than 1-2 years 2-3 years More than
agreement with the books of accounts.
1 year 3 years
ix) None of the entities of the Group have been declared as a wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or any
Upto 31 1 April 2024 to 1 April 2025 to Beyond
other lender.
March 2024 31 March 2025 31 March 2026 1 April 2026
x) Relationship with Struck off Companies ````` Crore
North Karanpura TPP - 7,460.83 - - 7,460.83
Barh-I TPP - 11,862.70 - - 11,862.70 Name of struck off Company Nature of Balance Balance Relationship CIN
transactions outstanding outstanding with the
Tavopan HEP - 5,817.62 - - 5,817.62
with struck- as at as at struck off
Rammam Hydro Electric - - - 785.14 785.14 off Company 31 March 31 March company
2024 2023
Telangana-I TPP 11,262.65 - - - 11,262.65
Aradhya Construction Private Limited Receivables # # Contractor U45200BR2013PTC020295
PSP (1000 MW) 850.00 298.86 - - 1,148.86
Shiv Singh Amar Singh And Company Receivables - 1.38 Contractor U70200DL1985PTC022577
VPHEP (444 MW) 560.00 470.00 316.05 - 1,346.05
Private Limited
PVUNL Stage-1 - 9,822.78 - - 9,822.78 Ganga Mechanical works Pvt Ltd Receivables 0.05 0.05 Contractor U45201DL2003PTC119275
BRBCL 540.56 - - - 540.56 Hello Marketing Pvt. Ltd Receivables # # Contractor U67190DL1993PTC053859
Talaipalli Coal Mining Project 939.61 - - - 939.61 S S Builders (India) Pvt Ltd Receivables # # Contractor U45201DL1981PTC011552
Shiva Shakti Services Pvt. Ltd. Receivables # # Contractor U74992DL1995PTC072519
Chatti Bariatu Coal Mining Project - 463.31 - - 463.31
Brindavan Projects Ltd Payables 0.01 0.01 Contractor U45200TG1994PLC018506
Kerandari Coal Mining Project - - 831.16 - 831.16
Eco E-Waste Recyclers India Payables # # Contractor U37200KA2010PTC052547
Badam Coal Mining Project - - - 41.58 41.58
Private Limited
Nokhra Solar PV Project 100MW 682.33 - - - 682.33 Go Green Buildtech Pvt. Ltd. Payables # # Contractor U45400DL2014PTC264520
Sambhu Ki Bhurj II Solar PV 217.11 - - - 217.11 Innutech Web Solutions Pvt Ltd Payables # # Contractor U72200DL2010PTC200692
Project 150 MW Leonard Exports Private Limited Payables 0.10 0.10 Contractor U74900WB2009PTC133430
Chattargarh 150 MW 240.74 - - - 240.74 Neway Engineers Msw Pvt. Ltd. Payables 0.18 0.18 Contractor U74900TN2015PTC100484
Bhainsara 320 MW 7.33 - - - 7.33 Prava Trading Corporation (India) Payables 0.05 0.05 Contractor U51909WB2013PTC197297
Private Limited
GUVNL 200 MW 1.29 - - - 1.29
U K Construction Pvt Ltd Payables - # Contractor U00501BR1986PTC002490
GUVNL 150 MW 5.50 - - - 5.50
Hanothia Industries Ltd. Payables # # Contractor U27109TG2005PTC046327
Hn18 Health Services Pvt Ltd Payables # # Contractor U74900KA2015PTC080531
vi) (a) Intangible assets under development - Ageing Schedule as at 31 March 2024
````` Crore M M Raj Travels Private Limited Payables # # Contractor U34101UP1996PTC020425
Pumos Lighting Pvt Ltd Payables - # Contractor U31503DL2012PTC240358
Intangible assets under development Amount in CWIP for a period of Total
Timetech Enterprises Pvt Ltd Payables 0.01 0.01 Contractor U51109DL1989PTC038628
Less than 1-2 years 2-3 years More than
1 year 3 years Uniteam Pvt Ltd Payables - # Contractor U29253WB2011PTC169264
A.S. Builders Private Limited. Payables 0.01 0.01 Contractor U45201DL1995PTC071401
Projects in progress 67.71 2.77 1.17 - 71.65
Asian Marketing Co Ltd Payables # # Contractor U51909WB1951PLC019996
Projects temporarily suspended - - - - -
Burn Standard Co. Ltd. Payables 0.03 0.03 Contractor U51909WB1976GOI030797
Intangible assets under development - Ageing Schedule as at 31 March 2023 Chandel Construction Private Limited Payables 0.06 0.10 Contractor U45202BR2019PTC043334
` Crore Hemantbirla Construction(I)Pvt Ltd Payables # # Contractor U45309MP2021PTC054984
Intangible assets under development Amount in CWIP for a period of Total Rohtas Security & Intelligence Payables # # Contractor U74920BR2008PTC013425
Services Pvt. Ltd.
Less than 1-2 years 2-3 years More than
1 year 3 years Sankat Mochan Construction Pvt Ltd Payables 0.01 0.01 Contractor U45200BR2003PTC010344
Titan Televentures Pvt. Ltd. Payables # # Contractor U51909UP2004PTC029354
Projects in progress 5.98 3.65 5.14 31.11 45.88
Binary Solutions Pvt.Ltd. Payables # # Contractor U72200TG1999PTC032912
Projects temporarily suspended - - - - -
638 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 639
````` Crore Name of struck off Company Nature of Number of Number of CIN
Name of struck off Company Nature of Balance Balance Relationship CIN transactions equity equity
transactions outstanding outstanding with the with struck- shares held shares held
with struck- as at as at struck off off Company 31.03.2024 31.03.2023
off Company 31 March 31 March company Canny Securities Pvt Ltd Shares 1 1 U67120KA1995PTC018357
2024 2023 Satvik Financial Services Ltd. held by 24 24 U67100MH2009PLC196964
Devidayal & Mahindra Cables Payables - - Contractor U31300DL1989PTC035357 struck off
Vaishak Shares Limited 1 1 U85110KA1994PLC015178
Private Limited company
Kothari Intergroup Ltd. 13 13 U51909KA1984PLC005952
Express Lifts Ltd Payables 0.05 0.05 Contractor U74999GJ1997PTC033243
Dreams Broking Private Limited 6 6 U67190MH2012PTC226215
G G Tronics India Pvt Ltd Payables # # Contractor U14200KA2010PTC052244
Ganapati Infin Pvt Ltd 8 48 U70109PB2011PTC034996
Gill Buildcon Pvt.Ltd. Payables 1.20 - Contractor U45400DL2007PTC162054
Shree Anekant Marketing Pvt Ltd 10 10 U51900WB1995PTC106659
Great Eastern Trading Co. Payables # # Contractor U51109WB1950PLC018863
Data Nova India Private Limited 1,000 1,000 U72200PN1996PTC098577
R V Briggs & Company Pvt Ltd Payables - - Contractor U13209WB1993PTC057855
Ritrishi Finvest Private Limited 256 256 U99999MH1995PTC095593
S V Network Technologies India Pvt Payables 0.10 0.10 Contractor U72200TG2006PTC051972
Sagar Hospitals Private Limited Payables - - Contractor U85110TG1988PTC008174
c) Debentures held by struck off companies
Vagjra Hotline Power Service Pvt Ltd Payables - - Contractor U40108AP2009PTC064430
Name of struck off Company Nature of Number of Number of CIN
Yugesh and Chandan Construction Payables 0.02 0.02 Contractor U45200BR2015PTC023996
transactions Debentures Debentures
Private limited
with struck- held held
Gemindiajobsolutions Private Ltd. Payables # - Contractor U72900UP2020PTC138736
off Company 31.03.2024 31.03.2023
D. HARIDAS & COMPANY Payables - - Service U51909GJ1947PLC000266
Stalag Investments & Management Debentures 50 50 U67120MH1987PTC042898
Provider
Services Pvt Ltd held by
INDIAN HYDRAULIC INDUSTRIES Payables - - Service U29119DL1976PTC008404 struck off
Tradeshare Financial Services Pvt Ltd 100 100 U67120KL2008PTC023516
PVT. LTD. Provider company
Dige And Associates Investment 29 29 U00893PN2006PTC022295
Pixel Webtech Private Limited Payables # # Service U72100DL2006PTC155887
Consultants Pvt Ltd
Provider
ANANTSHRI INDUSTRIAL SECURITY Payables 0.02 0.02 Contractor U93090MP2017OPC042984 Canny Securities Pvt Ltd 1 1 U67120KA1995PTC018357
(OPC) PRIVATE LIMITED Satvik Financial Services Ltd. 20 20 U67100MH2009PLC196964
Naveli Décor Private Limited Payables - - Contractor U52609UP2017PTC099523
Vaishak Shares Limited 1 1 U85110KA1994PLC015178
Shashidhar Construction & Receivables 0.72 0.72 Contractor U45200JH1994PTC005864
Kothari Intergroup Ltd. 11 11 U51909KA1984PLC005952
Carriers Private Limited
Ganapati Infin Pvt Ltd 40 40 U70109PB2011PTC034996
Sankat Mochan Construction Payables 0.01 0.01 Contractor U45200BR2003PTC010344
Private Limited Ritrishi Finvest Private Limited 214 214 U99999MH1995PTC095593
Shaba Infra Projects Private Limited Payables 0.14 0.14 Contractor U45200JH2013PTC001333 4A Strategies Private Ltd 3,000 3,000 U17231KA1997PTC023027
Bennett Coleman & Company Ltd Payables - - Contractor U72900MH1999PLC123286 Bhomiya Vyapaar Pvt. Ltd 2,000 2,000 U51109WB1994PTC062535
# Individual Amount recoverable/payable is less than ` 50,000/- and sum of all recoverable cases amounts to ````` 58,175/- (31 Clairsol Systems Private Limited 320 320 U72200DL2001PTC110910
March 2023- ` 46,403) and sum of all payable cases amounts to ````` 3,69,989/- (31 March 2023 - ` 4,23,337/-) Diwansons Holding and 956 956 U65990MH1984PTC032744
Consultancy Pvt Ltd
b) Shares held by struck off companies
Dreams Comtrade Private Limited 1,686 1,686 U67190MH2012PTC226217
Name of struck off Company Nature of Number of Number of CIN
Jewel Strips Pvt Ltd 823 823 U27200MH1993PTC073648
transactions equity equity
Kuber World Private Limited 1 1 U74899DL1973PTC006817
with struck- shares held shares held
off Company 31.03.2024 31.03.2023 Rokad Investments Private Limited. 30 30 U65900MH1997PTC108580
Stalag Investments & Management Shares 60 60 U67120MH1987PTC042898 Telelink Securities & FinanceLtd 544 544 U67120MH1997PLC109896
Services Pvt Ltd held by
V. M. Fiscal Services Pvt. Ltd. 50 50 U65993TN1991PTC021278
struck off
Tradeshare Financial Services Pvt Ltd 120 120 U67120KL2008PTC023516
Vivid Finance and Holdings Pvt Ltd 1,428 1,428 U65990MH1988PTC045875
company
Dige And Associates Investment 34 34 U00893PN2006PTC022295
VMS Consultants Pvt. Ltd. 125 125 U51909WB1992PTC055925
Consultants Pvt Ltd
640 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 641
642 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 643
1.COA
.ON
MROF
.dtL
CPTN
fo
serutneV
tnioJ/seinapmoC
etaicossA/seiraidisbuS
fo
stnemetats
laicnanif
eht
fo
serutaef
tneilas
gniniatnoc
tnemetatS
)4102
,seluR
)stnuoccA(
seinapmoC
fo
5
eluR
htiw
daer
921
noitceS
fo
)3(
noitces-bus
ot osivorp
tsrif
ot
tnausruP(
)erorc
`
ni
tnuomA(
seiraidisbuS
:”A“
traP
01
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
.oN .lS
.1
neerG
CPTN
saG
irigantaR
CMDE
CPTN
nretsaE
htroN
aidnI
CDHT
gniniM
CPTN
tuydiV
utartaP
liaR
ayitrahB
tuydiV
CPTN
cirtcelE
CPTN
yraidisbuS
eht fo
emaN
.2
.dtL
ygrenE
rewoP
&
snoituloS
etsaW
rewoP
cirtcelE
.dtL
.dtL
magiN
nadaptU
ynapmoC
eeljiB
magiN
rapayV
ynapmoC
ylppuS
.dtL
etavirP
.dtL
etavirP
.dtL
noitaroproC
.dtL
.dtL
.dtL
.dtL
2202.40.70
0202.21.13
0202.60.10
0202.30.72
0202.30.72
9102.80.92
5102.01.51
7002.11.22
2002.11.10
2002.80.12
nehw
ecnis etad
ehT
.3
deriuqca
saw yraidisbus
taht
sa
emaS
taht
sa
emaS
taht
sa
emaS
taht
sa
emaS
taht
sa
emaS
taht
sa
emaS
taht
sa
emaS
taht
sa
emaS
taht
sa
emaS
taht
sa
emaS
eht rof
doirep gnitropeR
.4
gnidloH
fo
gnidloH
fo
gnidloH
fo
gnidloH
fo
gnidloH
fo
gnidloH
fo
gnidloH
fo
gnidloH
fo
gnidloH
fo
gnidloH
fo
fi ,denrecnoc
yraidisbus
ynapmoC
ynapmoC
ynapmoC
ynapmoC
ynapmoC
ynapmoC
ynapmoC
ynapmoC
ynapmoC
ynapmoC
eht
morf tnereffid
- 3202.40.10(
- 3202.40.10(
- 3202.40.10(
- 3202.40.10(
- 3202.40.10(
- 3202.40.10(
- 3202.40.10(
- 3202.40.10(
- 3202.40.10(
- 3202.40.10(
s’ynapmoc
gnidloh
)4202.30.13
)4202.30.13
)4202.30.13
)4202.30.13
)4202.30.13
)4202.30.13
)4202.30.13
)4202.30.13
)4202.30.13
)4202.30.13
doirep gnitroper
AN
AN
AN
AN
AN
AN
AN
AN
AN
AN
dna ycnerruc
gnitropeR
.5
eht no
sa etar egnahcxe
tnaveler
eht fo etad
tsal
esac eht
ni raey laicnanif
.seiraidisbus
ngierof
fo
16.917,5
03.272,3
02.0
18.906,3
88.566,3
01.451
70.529,2
64.793,2
00.03
80.0
latipac
erahS
.6
35.215
)06.706,1(
)45.3(
95.162,3
11.878,6
)34.3(
)95.2(
73.526
04.428
32.02
sulprus
& sevreseR
.7
34.602,72
22.316,2
11.0
08.506,61
52.225,13
17.051
94.214,41
59.187,8
12.134,4
05.02
stessa
latoT
.8
92.479,02
25.849
54.3
04.437,9
62.879,02
40.0
10.094,11
21.957,5
18.675,3
91.0
seitilibail
latoT
.9
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
26.1
-
stnemtsevnI
.01
06.269,1
91.506,2
-
75.932,4
42.769,1
-
-
55.707,3
92.303,5
-
revonruT
.11
17.584
32.437,1
)20.0(
02.795
55.415
)24.3(
)10.0(
45.565
89.112
51.0
noitaxat
erofeb
tiforP
.21
58.241
-
-
60.94
)24.28(
-
-
35.84
40.15
11.0
noitaxat
rof noisivorP
.31
68.243
32.437,1
)20.0(
41.845
79.695
)24.3(
)10.0(
10.715
49.061
40.0
noitaxat
retfa
tiforP
.41
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
dnedivid
desoporP
.51
%00.001
%94.68
%00.47
%00.001
%694.47
%00.001
%00.47
%00.47
%00.001
%00.001
gnidloherahS
fo %
.61
:setoN
detimiL
gniniM
CPTN
.1
.snoitarepo
ecnemmoc
ot
tey
era
hcihw
seiraidisbuS
.1
.dtL
etavirP
snoituloS
etsaW
CMDE
CPTN
.2
xi) The provisions of clause (87) of section 2 of the Act read with the Companies (Restriction on number of Layers) Rules,
2017 are not applicable to the group as per Section 2(45) of the Companies Act, 2013.
xii) There were no scheme of Arrangements approved by the competent authority during the year in terms of sections 230
to 237 of the Companies Act,2013.
xiii) The Group has not advanced or loaned or invested any fund to any entity (Intermediaries) with the understanding that the Intermediary shall lend or invest in party identified by or on behalf of the Company (Ultimate Beneficiaries). The
Company has not received any fund from any party with the understanding that the Company shall whether, directly or
indirectly lend or invest in other entities identified by or on behalf of the Company (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide
any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
xiv) The Group has not traded or invested in Crypto currency or Virtual Currency during the financial year.
xv) The Group does not have any transaction which is not recorded in the books of accounts that has been surrendered or
disclosed as income during the year in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961.
78. Statement containing salient features of the financial statements of Subsidiaries/Joint Ventures of NTPC Ltd. pursuant to
first proviso to sub-section (3) of Section 129 read with Rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014, in Form AOC I is
attached.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
(Ritu Arora) (Jaikumar Srinivasan) (Gurdeep Singh)
Company Secretary Director (Finance) Chairman & Managing Director
DIN: 01220828 DIN: 00307037
These are the notes referred to in our report of even date
For Vinod Kumar & Associates For Goyal Parul & Co For M. C. Bhandari & Co.
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants
Firm Reg. No. 002304N Firm Reg. No. 016750N Firm Reg. No. 303002E
(Mukesh Dadhich) (Parul Goyal) (Amit Biswas)
Partner Partner Partner
M. No. 511741 M. No. 099172 M. No. 052296
For J K S S & Associates For Agasti & Associates For S.N. Kapur & Associates
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Firm Reg. No. 006836C Firm Reg. No. 313043E Firm Reg. No. 001545C
(Ram Babu) (B. Agasti) (S. N. Kapur)
Partner Partner Partner
M. No. 016151 M. No. 051026 M. No. 014335
Place: New Delhi
Dated: 24 May, 2024
Digitally signed by signatories
Part”B”: Associates and Joint Ventures Sl. Name of Joint National High Energy CIL NTPC Urja Anushakti Hindustan Trincomalee Bangladesh- Jhabua Power
No. Ventures Power Test Efficiency Pvt. Ltd. Vidhyut Nigam Urvarak & Power India Friendship Ltd.
Statement pursuant to Section 129 (3) of the Companies Act, 2013
Laboratory Services Ltd. Ltd. Rasayan Company Power Company
Sl. Name of Joint Utility NTPC - GE NTPC-SAIL NTPC Tamil- Aravali Power NTPC-BHEL Meja Urja Transformers Pvt. Ltd. Limited Ltd. Pvt. Ltd.
No. Ventures Powertech Power Services Power nadu Energy Company Power Projects Nigam Pvt. Ltd. & Electricals
1. Latest Audited 31.03.2023 31.03.2023 31.03.2024 31.03.2024 31.03.2023 31.12.2021 30.06.2023 31.03.2024
Ltd. Pvt. Ltd. Company Ltd. Company Ltd. Pvt. Ltd. Pvt. Ltd. Kerela Ltd.
Balance Sheet Date
1. Latest Audited 31.03.2023 31.03.2023 31.03.2024 31.03.2024 31.03.2024 31.03.2023 31.03.2024 31.03.2023
2. Date on which the 22.05.2009 10.12.2009 27.04.2010 27.01.2011 15.06.2016 26.09.2011 31.10.2012 05.09.2022
Balance Sheet Date
Associate or Joint
2. Date on which the 23.11.1995 27.09.1999 08.02.1999 23.05.2003 21.12.2006 28.04.2008 02.04.2008 19.06.2009 venture was
Associate or Joint associated or
venture was acquired
associated or
3. Shares of Joint
acquired
Ventures held by
3. Shares of Joint the Company on
Ventures held by the year end as
the Company on at 31.03.2024
the year end as
Number 4,88,00,000 84,66,10,000 76,900 49,000 2,64,29,85,000 34,86,061 16,00,00,000 32,50,00,000
at 31.03.2024
Amount of 12.32 697.51 0.08 0.05 2,642.99 15.64 1,324.02 325.00
Number 20,00,000 30,00,000 49,02,50,050 1,46,63,96,112 1,43,30,08,200 5,00,00,000 1,82,63,34,800 1,91,63,438
Investment
Amount of 1.00 3.00 490.25 1,466.40 1,433.01 50.00 1,826.33 31.34 in Joint Venture
Investment (` crore)
in Joint Venture
Extent of Holding 21.63% 39.25% 50.00% 49.00% 33.33% 50.00% 50.00% 50.00%
(` crore)
(%)
Extent of Holding 50.00% 50.00% 50.00% 50.00% 50.00% 50.00% 50.00% 44.60%
4. Description of how NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
(%)
there is significant
4. Description of how NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA influence
there is significant
5. Reason why the NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
influence
Joint Venture is
5. Reason why the NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA not consolidated
Joint Venture is (````` crore)
not consolidated
Share Capital 48.80 846.59 0.08 0.05 2,642.99 9.69 1,212.64 325.00
(````` crore)
Reserve & Surplus (36.47) (222.21) - (0.05) 577.26 (8.83) 269.75 1,640.23
Share Capital 2.00 3.00 490.25 1,466.40 1,433.01 50.00 1,826.34 19.16
6. Networth attributable 12.32 624.39 0.08 - 3,220.25 0.86 1,482.39 1,965.23
Reserve & Surplus 108.03 12.27 1,090.19 480.75 1,016.74 (161.48) 96.84 (13.69)
to Shareholding as per
6. Networth attributable 110.03 15.27 1,580.44 1,947.14 2,449.75 (111.48) 1,923.17 5.47 latest audited Balance
to Shareholding as per Sheet (````` crore)
latest audited Balance
7. Profit/ Loss for
Sheet (````` crore)
the year (Total
7. Profit/ Loss for
Comprehensive
the year (Total
Income)
Comprehensive
i Considered for (6.08) (51.14) 0.02 - 393.02 (0.16) 289.68 (55.98)
Income)
Consolidation
i Considered for 7.00 6.26 216.33 293.42 376.81 - 174.03 (1.94) (` crore)
Consolidation
ii Not Considered 12.32 NA NA NA NA NA NA NA
(` crore)
in Consolidation
ii Not Considered NA NA NA NA NA (111.48) NA NA (` crore)
in Consolidation
(` crore)
644 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 645
Notes: INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
A. Names of Joint Ventures which are yet to commence operations.
1 CIL NTPC Urja Private Ltd. To
2 Anushakti Vidyut Nigam Ltd.
The Members of NTPC Limited
3 Trincomalee Power Company Ltd. (incorporated in Srilanka)
B. Names of Associates or Joint Ventures which have been liquidated or sold during the year. Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements
1 BF-NTPC Energy Systems Ltd. is in the process of voluntary winding up.
Opinion
We have audited the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements of NTPC Limited (hereinafter referred to as “the
Holding Company”) and its subsidiaries (the Holding Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as “the Group”), and
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors its share of profit/ loss in joint ventures, which comprise the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2024, the Consolidated
Statement of Profit and Loss (including Other Comprehensive Income), the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and
(Ritu Arora) (Jaikumar Srinivasan) (Gurdeep Singh) the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended, and notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements,
Company Secretary Director (Finance) Chairman & Managing Director including a summary of the Material accounting policies and other explanatory information for the year ended on that date
DIN: 01220828 DIN: 00307037 (hereinafter referred to as “Consolidated Financial Statements”).
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us and based on the consideration
For Vinod Kumar & Associates For Goyal Parul & Co For M. C. Bhandari & Co.
of reports of other auditors on separate Financial Statements and on the other financial information of the subsidiaries and
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants
joint ventures referred to in the Other Matters section below, the aforesaid Consolidated Financial Statements give the
Firm Reg. No. 002304N Firm Reg. No. 016750N Firm Reg. No. 303002E
information required by the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) in the manner so required and give a true and fair view in
(Mukesh Dadhich) (Parul Goyal) (Amit Biswas) conformity with the Indian Accounting Standards prescribed under section 133 of the Act, read with the Companies (Indian
Partner Partner Partner Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended (“Ind AS”) and other accounting principles generally accepted in India, of
M. No. 511741 M. No. 099172 M. No. 052296 the consolidated state of affairs (financial position) of the Group and its joint ventures as at 31 March 2024, and their
consolidated net profit (financial performance including other comprehensive income), their consolidated changes in equity
For J K S S & Associates For Agasti & Associates For S.N. Kapur & Associates and consolidated cash flows for the year ended on that date.
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants
Firm Reg. No. 006836C Firm Reg. No. 313043E Firm Reg. No. 001545C Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs) specified
(Ram Babu) (B. Agasti) (S. N. Kapur)
under section 143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities under those Standards are further described in the Auditor’s
Partner Partner Partner
Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent of the
M. No. 016151 M. No. 051026 M. No. 014335
Group and Its Joint Ventures in accordance with the ‘Code of Ethics’ issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India
(ICAI) together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements under
Place: New Delhi
the provisions of the Act and the Rules made thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance
Dated: 24 May, 2024
with these requirements and the ICAI’s Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence obtained by us and the audit
Digitally signed by signatories
evidence obtained by the other auditors in terms of their reports referred in the Other Matters section below, is sufficient
and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Emphasis of Matter
Considering the requirement of Standard on Auditing (SA 600) on ‘Using the work of Another Auditor’ including materiality,
we draw attention to the following matters in the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements:
(a) Note No 52 (d) with respect to order of Hon’ble Supreme Court of India regarding recovery of capacity charges along
with interest from Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited by Ratnagiri Gas and Power Private Limited,
a subsidiary of the Holding Company and revenue amounting to ` 1,228.82 crore has been recognised during the year
and balance amount due has been postponed for recognition due to uncertainty of ultimate collection of the amount
involved.
(b) Note No 53 with respect to a Hydro Electric Project in the State of Uttarakhand which is under execution by the holding
company. After the reports of land subsidence in Joshimath Town, Additional District Magistrate, Chamoli has issued
order on 5 January 2023 to stop all the construction activities till further orders. Aggregate cost incurred on the project
up to 31 March 2024 is ` 6,671.30 crore (31 March 2023: ` 6,252.31 crore). The matter is sub-judice in Hon’ble High
Court of Uttarakhand.
(c) The Holding Company has been assigning jobs on contract basis, for sundry works in plants/stations/offices to M/s
Utility Powertech Ltd. (UPL), a joint venture of the Holding Company, in which the holding company has 50% shareholding.
646 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 647
The rates were fixed on cost plus basis, which were however, not considered by management, as on arm’s length basis.
Sl.
The transactions reported for the year are in respect of assignments awarded till the financial year 2022-23 having Key Audit Matters How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matters
No.
execution period beyond 31 March 2023. The holding company has presented for the approval of Audit Committee,
transactions undertaken during the current financial year 2023-24 of a value of ` 482.45 Crore, in pursuance to assignment 2. Impairment assessment of Property, Plant and
awarded upto financial year 2022-23. The audit committee did not review or approve such transactions, but the same Equipment (PPE)
were subsequently approved by Board of Directors in the meeting held on 24 May, 2024. (Refer Note no 61 (f) (ii))
The Holding Company has a material operational We have obtained an understanding and tested the design and
(d) Note No. 64(iii)(b) with respect to appeal filed by the Holding Company with the Hon’ble High Court of Delhi in the asset base (PPE) relating to generation of operating effectiveness of controls as established by the
matter of Arbitral award pronounced against the holding company and the related provision made/disclosure of contingent electricity and is one of the components for Company’s management for impairment assessment of PPE.
liability as mentioned in the said note. determining the tariff as per the CERC Tariff
We evaluated the Holding Company’s process of impairment
Regulations, which may be vulnerable to
(e) Note No 66 (B) (v) with respect to execution of Business Transfer Agreement (BTA) dated 17 August 2023 with NTPC assessment in assessing the appropriateness of the impairment
impairment.
Mining Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the holding company, for hiving off its coal mining business at book value. model including the independent assessment of discount rate,
The BTA has only been approved by the Board of Directors of the holding company and subsidiary company, which shall We considered this as a key audit matter as the economic growth rate, terminal value etc.
become effective on completion of the precedent conditions as mentioned in the said BTA, subject to necessary regulatory carrying value of PPE requires impairment
We evaluated and checked the calculations of the cash flow
approvals. assessment based on the future expected cash
forecasts prepared by the Holding Company taking into
flows associated with the power plants (Cash
Our opinion is not modified in respect of the aforesaid matters. consideration the CERC (Terms and Conditions of Tariff)
generating units).
Regulations, 2024 (applicable for the tariff period of 5 years
Key Audit Matters (Refer Note No. 63 to the Consolidated Financial from 1 April 2024 to 31 March 2029) along with the
Statements, read with the Material Accounting aforementioned assumptions.
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the
Policy No. C.17)
Consolidated Financial Statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the Based on the above procedures performed, we observed that
Consolidated Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion the Company’s impairment assessment of the PPE is adequate
on these matters. For each matter below, description of how our audit addressed the matter is provided in that context. and reasonable.
Considering the requirement of Standard on Auditing (SA 600) on ‘Using the work of Another Auditor’ including materiality,
3. Deferred Tax Asset relating to MAT Credit
below Key Audit Matters have been reproduced from the Independent Auditors’ report on the audit of Standalone Financial
Entitlement and corresponding Regulatory
Statements of the Holding Company.
Deferral Liability
Sl.
Key Audit Matters How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matters The holding company has recognised deferred tax We have obtained an understanding for recognition of deferred
No.
asset relating to MAT credit entitlement. tax asset relating to MAT credit entitlement and corresponding
1. Recognition and Measurement of revenue from Utilisation of MAT credit will result in lower liability of the same in Regulatory Deferral Account including
Sale of Energy outflow of Income Tax in future years and the management’s judgement.
accordingly Regulatory Deferral Liability
The Holding Company records revenue from sale We have obtained an understanding of the CERC Tariff We further assessed the related forecasts of future taxable
attributable to the said MAT credit entitlement
of energy as per the principles enunciated under Regulations, orders, circulars, guidelines and the Company’s profits and evaluated the reasonableness of the considerations
has also been recognized which is payable to the
Ind AS 115, based on tariff approved by the internal circulars and procedures in respect of recognition and / assumptions underlying the preparation of these forecasts.
beneficiaries in subsequent periods as per CERC
Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (CERC) measurement of revenue from sale of energy comprising of We have also verified the regulatory deferral account balance
Tariff Regulations. The recoverability of this
as modified by the orders of Appellate capacity and energy charges and adopted the following audit attributable to the said MAT credit payable to the beneficiaries
deferred tax asset relating to MAT credit
Authorities. Pending issue of provisional/final procedures: in subsequent periods.
entitlement is dependent upon the generation of
tariff order w.e.f. 01 April, 2019 capacity charges
- Evaluated and tested the effectiveness of the Company’s sufficient future taxable profits to utilise such Based on the above procedures performed, the recognition
has been provisionally recognised considering the
design of internal controls relating to recognition and entitlement within the stipulated period and measurement of Deferred tax asset relating to MAT credit
applicable CERC Tariff Regulations 2019.
measurement of revenue from sale of energy. prescribed under the Income Tax Act, 1961. entitlement and attributable Regulatory Deferral Liability
This is considered as key audit matter due to the towards beneficiaries, is considered adequate and reasonable.
- Examined the Holding Company’s material accounting We identified this as a key audit matter because
nature and extent of estimates made as per the
policies with respect to assessing compliance with Ind AS of the importance of this matter to the intended
CERC Tariff Regulations, which leads to
115 “Revenue from Contract with Customers”. users of the Consolidated Financial Statements
recognition and measurement of revenue from
sale of energy being complex and judgmental. - Verified the accounting of revenue from sale of energy and its materiality; and requirement of judgement
based on provisional tariff computed as per the principles in forecasting future taxable profits for
(Refer Note No. 42 to the Consolidated Financial
of CERC Tariff Regulations 2019. recognition of MAT credit entitlement considering
Statements, read with the Material Accounting
the recoverability of such tax credits within
Policy No. C.13) - Assessed the disclosures in accordance with the
allowed time frame as per the provisions of the
requirements of Ind AS 115 “Revenue from Contract with
Income Tax Act, 1961.
Customers”.
(Refer Note No. 23, 31, 57 & 72 to the
Based on the above procedure performed, the recognition,
Consolidated Financial Statements, read with the
measurement and disclosures of revenue from sale of energy
Material Accounting Policy No. C.5 and C.15)
are considered to be adequate and reasonable.
648 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 649
accepted in India, including the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified under section 133 of the Act read with the
Sl.
Key Audit Matters How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matters Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 as amended. The respective Board of Directors of the companies
No.
included in the Group and of its joint ventures are responsible for maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance
4. Contingent Liabilities with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding the assets of the Group and its joint ventures and for preventing and detecting
frauds and other irregularities; the selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and
There are a number of litigations pending before We have obtained an understanding of the Holding Company’s
estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial
various forums against the Holding Company and internal instructions and procedures in respect of estimation
controls, that were operating effectively for ensuring accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the
the management’s judgement is required for and disclosure of contingent liabilities and adopted the
preparation and presentation of the Consolidated Financial Statements that give a true and fair view and are free from
estimating the amount to be disclosed as following audit procedures:
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, which have been used for the purpose of preparation of the Consolidated
contingent liability.
- understood and tested the design and operating Financial Statements by the Directors of the Holding Company, as aforesaid.
We identified this as a key audit matter because effectiveness of controls as established by the
In preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements, the respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the
the estimates on which these amounts are based management for obtaining all relevant information for
Group and of its joint ventures are responsible for assessing the ability of the Group and of its joint ventures to continue as
involve a significant degree of management pending litigation cases;
a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting
judgement in interpreting the cases and it may
- discussed with the management regarding any material unless management either intends to liquidate the Group and its Joint Ventures or to cease operations, or has no realistic
be subject to management bias.
developments thereto and latest status of legal matters; alternative but to do so.
(Refer Note No. 76(A) to the Consolidated
- read various correspondences and related documents The respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group and of its joint ventures are responsible for
Financial Statements, read with the Material
pertaining to litigation cases and relevant external legal overseeing the financial reporting process of the Group and of its joint ventures.
Accounting Policy No. C.11)
opinions obtained by the management and performed
substantive procedures on calculations supporting the Auditors’ Responsibility for the audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements
disclosure of contingent liabilities;
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Consolidated Financial Statements as a whole are free
- examined management’s judgements and assessments in from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes our opinion.
respect of whether provisions are required; Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will
always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material
- considered the management assessments of those matters
if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on
that are not disclosed as contingent liability since the
the basis of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
probability of material outflow is considered to be remote;
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout
- reviewed the adequacy and completeness of disclosures;
the audit. We also:
Based on the above procedures performed, the estimation and
• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the Consolidated Financial Statements, whether due to fraud or
disclosures of contingent liabilities is considered to be adequate
error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and
and reasonable.
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is
higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations,
Information other than the Consolidated Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report thereon or the override of internal control.
The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation of the other information. The other information • Obtain an understanding of internal financial control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are
comprises the Corporate Governance Report, and the information included in the Directors’ Report including Annexures, appropriate in the circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion
Management Discussion and Analysis, Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report and other company related information on whether the holding company, its subsidiaries and joint ventures incorporated in India have adequate internal financial
(but does not include the Consolidated Financial Statements and Standalone Financial Statements and our auditors’ report controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements in place and the operating effectiveness of such controls.
thereon), which are expected to be made available to us after the date of this auditors’ report.
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related
Our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements does not cover the other information and we do not and will not disclosures made by management.
express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
• Conclude on the appropriateness of Holding Company’s management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting
In connection with our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that
and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the Consolidated Financial Statements may cast significant doubt on the ability of the Group and its joint ventures to continue as a going concern. If we conclude
or our knowledge obtained during the course of our audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in
the Consolidated Financial Statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are
When we read the other information, if we conclude that there is a material misstatement therein, we are required to
based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may
communicate the matter to those charged with governance and take appropriate actions, if required.
cause the Group and its joint ventures to cease to continue as a going concern.
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Consolidated Financial Statements • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the Consolidated Financial Statements, including the
The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation and presentation of these Consolidated Financial disclosures, and whether the Consolidated Financial Statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a
Statements in terms of the requirements of the Act, that give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial position, manner that achieves fair presentation.
consolidated financial performance including other comprehensive income, consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity • Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities
and consolidated cash flows of the Group including its joint ventures in accordance with the accounting principles generally
650 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 651
within the Group and its joint ventures to express an opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements. We are responsible c) The audited consolidated financial statements of the Holding Company for the year ended 31 March 2023 included in
for the direction, supervision and performance of the audit of the financial statements of such entities included in the these consolidated financial statements, have been audited by the Predecessor Joint Statutory Auditors whose audit
Consolidated Financial Statements of which we are the independent auditors. For the other entities included in the report dated 19 May, 2023 expressed unmodified opinion on those audited consolidated financial statements.
Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been audited by other auditors, such other auditors remain responsible
d) We audited the restatement adjustments, as disclosed in Note No. 56 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which
for the direction, supervision and performance of the audits carried out by them. We remain solely responsible for our
have been made to the comparative Consolidated Financial Statements presented for the years prior to year ended 31
audit opinion.
March, 2024, in accordance with the requirement of applicable Ind AS.
We communicate with those charged with governance of the Holding Company and such other entities included in the
Our opinion is not modified in respect of the aforesaid matters.
Consolidated Financial Statements of which we are the independent auditors regarding, among other matters, the planned
scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirement
identify during our audit.
1. As required by paragraph 3(xxi) of the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 2020 (“the Order”) issued by the Central
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements
Government of India in terms of Section 143(11) of the Act, we report that there are no qualifications or adverse remarks
regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought
included in the CARO report in respect of the standalone financial statements of the Holding Company which are included
to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
in these Consolidated Financial Statements. In respect of Subsidiaries and Joint Ventures incorporated in India whose
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most accounts are audited, we report that no qualifications or adverse remarks given by the respective auditors in the Companies
significance in the audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit (Auditor’s Report) Order (CARO) reports of the Companies included in the consolidated financial statements.
matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the
In respect of following components included in the consolidated financial statements, respective auditors have not
matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report
issued their statutory audit report till the cut-off date considered for the independent auditors’ report of the Holding
because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of
Company:
such communication.
S. No. Name of the Company Subsidiary/ Joint Venture
Other Matters
1. Ratnagiri Gas & Power Private Limited Subsidiary
a) We did not audit the financial statements/ financial information of Nine subsidiaries included in the Consolidated Financial
Statement, whose financial statements reflects total Assets of ` 1,03,131.45 crore as at 31 March 2024; total Revenues 2. Utility Powertech Limited Joint Venture
of ` 17,408.50 crore and Net Cash inflows amounting to ` 397.03 crore for the year ended on that date, as considered in
3. National High Power Test Laboratory Private Limited Joint Venture
the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Consolidated Financial Statements also includes the Group’s share of net
profit using the equity method, of ` 1,007.02 crore and total comprehensive income of ` 1,004.63 crore for the year 4. NTPC- GE Power Services Private Limited Joint Venture
ended 31 March 2024, as considered in the consolidated financial statements, in respect of Seven joint ventures, whose
5. NTPC-BHEL Power Project Private Limited Joint Venture
financial statements have not been audited by us. These financial statements have been audited by their respective
independent auditors whose reports have been furnished to us by the management and our opinion on the Statement, 6. Transformers and Electricals Kerala Limited Joint Venture
in so far as it relates to the aforesaid subsidiaries and joint ventures is based solely on the reports of the other auditors
7. Energy Efficiency Services Limited Joint Venture
and the procedures performed by us are as stated Auditor’s Responsibility section above after considering the requirement
of Standard on Auditing (SA 600) on ‘Using the work of Another Auditor’ including materiality. 8. Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited Joint Venture
b) The Consolidated Financial Statements also include One subsidiary, whose financial statement / financial information
9. Trincomalee Power Company Limited Joint Venture
reflect total Assets of ` 2,613.22 crore as at 31 March 2024; total Revenues of ` 3,096.14 crore for the year ended on
that date, and net cash outflows amounting to ` 22.08 crore for the year ended on that date, as considered in the 10. Bangladesh India Friendship Power Company Private Limited Joint Venture
consolidated financial statements, have not been audited by their auditors. The consolidated financial statements also
include the Group’s share of net profit/(loss) after tax using the equity method, of ` 628.56 crore and total comprehensive 2. As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based on our audit and on the consideration of report of the other auditors on
income of ` 636.64 crore for the year ended 31 March 2024 respectively as considered in the Consolidated Financial separate financial statements and the other financial information of subsidiaries and joint ventures as mentioned in the
Statements in respect of Nine joint ventures whose financial statements/ financial information are unaudited.These ‘Other Matters’ section, we report, to the extent applicable, that:
financial statements/ financial information have been furnished to us by the Holding Company’s Management and our
a) We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief
opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements, in so far as it relates to the Group’s share of net profit/(loss) and
were necessary for the purposes of our audit of the aforesaid Consolidated Financial Statements.
disclosures included in respect of these joint ventures, and our report in terms of sub-section (3) of Section 143 of the
b) In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law relating to preparation of the aforesaid Consolidated
Act, in so far as it relates to the aforesaid subsidiaries and joint ventures, is based solely on such unaudited financial
Financial Statements have been kept by the Holding Company so far as it appears from our examination of those
statements/ financial information. Two of the joint ventures as above are located outside India in respect of which the
books and the reports of the other auditors.
Holding Company’s management has provided us the financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in India. In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us by c) The Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss (including Other Comprehensive
the Holding Company’s Management these financial statements / financial information are not material to the Group. Income), the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows dealt with
by this Report are in agreement with the relevant books of account maintained for the purpose of preparation of
Our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements, and our report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
the Consolidated Financial Statements.
below, is not modified in respect of the matters as stated in para (a) & (b) above, with respect to our reliance on the work
done and the reports of the other auditors, the financial statements/financial information certified by the Holding d) In our opinion, the aforesaid Consolidated Financial Statements comply with the Indian Accounting Standards specified
Company’s Management. under Section 133 of the Act read with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 as amended.
652 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 653
e) Being a Government Company, pursuant to the Notification No. GSR 463(E) dated 5 June 2015 issued by Ministry of (c) Based on the audit procedures that have been considered reasonable and appropriate in the circumstances
Corporate Affairs, Government of India, provisions of sub-section (2) of Section 164 of the Act, are not applicable to performed by us and that performed by the auditors of the subsidiaries and joint ventures which are
the Holding company and its subsidiaries. Further, on the basis of the reports of the auditors of two joint ventures companies incorporated in India whose financial statements have been audited under the Act, nothing has
incorporated in India, none of the directors of the joint ventures incorporated in India is disqualified as on 31 March come to our or other auditors’ notice that has caused us or other auditors to believe that the representations
2024 from being appointed as a director in terms of Section 164 (2) of the Act, wherever applicable. under sub-clause (i) and (ii) of Rule 11(e), as provided under (a) and (b) above, contain any material
misstatement.
f) With respect to the adequacy of the Internal Financial Controls with reference to consolidated financial statements
of the Holding Company, its subsidiaries and joint ventures incorporated in India and the operating effectiveness of v. As stated in Note 24 (c) to the Consolidated Financial Statements:
such controls, refer to our separate report in “Annexure-1”. Our report expresses a opinion on the adequacy and
(a) The final dividend proposed for the previous year, declared and paid by the Holding Company and its
operating effectiveness of the Holding Company’s internal financial controls over financial reporting.
subsidiaries and joint ventures which are companies incorporated in India during the year is in accordance
g) As per Notification No. GSR 463(E) dated 5 June 2015 issued by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Government of with Section 123 of the Act, as applicable.
India, Section 197 of the Act is not applicable to the Government Companies. Accordingly, reporting in accordance
(b) Interim dividend declared and paid by the Holding Company and its subsidiaries and joint ventures which
with requirement of provisions of section 197(16) of the Act is not applicable to the Holding company and its
are companies incorporated in India during the year is in accordance with Section 123 of the Act.
subsidiaries. Further, on the basis of the reports of the auditors of one joint venture incorporated in India, the
managerial remuneration paid/provided by such joint venture to its directors during the year was in accordance (c) The Board of Directors of the Holding Company and its subsidiaries and joint ventures which are companies
with the provisions of section 197 read with Schedule V of the Act, wherever applicable. incorporated in India has proposed final dividend for the year which is subject to the approval of the
members at the ensuing Annual General Meeting. The amount of dividend proposed is in accordance with
h) With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies
Section 123 of the Act to the extent it applies to declaration of dividend.
(Audit and Auditor’s) Rules, 2014, as amended in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to
the explanations given to us and based on the consideration of the report of the other auditors on separate financial vi. Based on our examination which included test checks, performed by us and on the consideration of the reports
statements and also the other financial information of the subsidiaries and joint ventures, as mentioned in the of the other auditors on the Holding Company, its subsidiaries and Joint Ventures which are companies
‘Other Matters’ paragraph: incorporated in India, have used accounting softwares for maintaining their respective books of account for the
financial year ended 31 March, 2024 which has a feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility and the same
i. The Consolidated Financial Statements disclose the impact of pending litigations on the consolidated financial
has operated throughout the year for all relevant transactions recorded in the softwares. Further, during the
position of the Group and its joint ventures. Refer Note No. 76(A) to the Consolidated Financial Statements;
course of audit, we have not come across any instance of the audit trail feature being tampered with except in
ii. Provision has been made in the Consolidated Financial Statements, as required under the applicable law or respect of Anushakti Vidhyut Nigam Limited, a Joint Venture incorporated in India, as reported by the auditor of
Indian Accounting Standards, for material foreseeable losses, on long-term contracts including derivative such joint venture, has used accounting software which has no feature for recording audit trail (edit log)
contracts; throughout the year.
iii. There has been some delay in transferring unclaimed amount of dividend and equity shares related thereto, as As proviso to Rule 3(1) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 is applicable from 1 April, 2023, reporting
required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and Protection Fund by the Holding Company. No amount under Rule 11(g) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 on preservation of audit trail as per the
of unclaimed dividend or unclaimed equity shares are pending to be transferred to the said fund as on 31 statutory requirements for record retention is not applicable for the financial year ended 31 March, 2024.
March 2024.
iv. (a) The respective Managements of the Holding Company and its subsidiaries and joint ventures which are
For Vinod Kumar & Associates For Goyal Parul & Co For M. C. Bhandari & Co.
companies incorporated in India, whose financial statements have been audited under the Act, have
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants
represented to us and the other auditors of such subsidiaries and its joint ventures that, to the best of their
FRN-002304N FRN-016750N FRN- 303002E
knowledge and belief, as disclosed in the note 77(xiii) to the Consolidated Financial Statements, no funds
have been advanced or loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds or share premium or any other
(Mukesh Dadhich) (Parul Goyal) (Amit Biswas)
sources or kind of funds) by the Holding Company or any such subsidiaries and joint ventures to or in any
Partner Partner Partner
other person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (“Intermediaries”), with the understanding, whether
M. No. 511741 M. No. 099172 M. No. 052296
recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall, directly or indirectly lend or invest in other
UDIN:24511741BJZYRB2984 UDIN:24099172BKBKAH8861 UDIN:24052296BKFZHV4107
persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Holding Company or any of
such subsidiaries and joint ventures (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the
like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
(b) The respective Managements of the Holding Company and its subsidiaries and joint ventures which are For J K S S & Associates For Agasti & Associates For S.N. Kapur & Associates
companies incorporated in India whose financial statements have been audited under the Act, have Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants
represented to us and the other auditors of such subsidiaries and joint ventures that to the best of their FRN-006836C FRN-313043E FRN-001545C
knowledge and belief, as disclosed in the note 77(xiii) to the Consolidated Financial Statements, no funds
have been received by the Holding Company or any of such subsidiaries and joint ventures from any person(s) (Ram Babu) (B. Agasti) (S. N. Kapur)
or entity(ies), including foreign entities (“Funding Parties”), with the understanding, whether recorded in Partner Partner Partner
writing or otherwise, that the Holding Company or any of such subsidiaries and joint ventures shall directly M. No. 016151 M. No. 051026 M. No. 014335
or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf UDIN: 24016151BKDEWF1744 UDIN: 24051026BKGTSO4352 UDIN: 24014335BJZZMZ8228
of the Funding Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of
the Ultimate Beneficiaries. Place: New Delhi
Dated: 24 May, 2024
Digitally signed by signatories
654 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 655
ANNEXURE 1 TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements, including
Referred to in paragraph 2 (f) under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even
the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may
date to the members of NTPC LIMITED on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2024
occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated
Report on the Internal Financial Controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements under Clause (i) of Sub-
Financial Statements to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial control with reference to Consolidated
section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”)
Financial Statements may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the
In conjunction with our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company as of and for the year ended 31 policies or procedures may deteriorate.
March 2024, we have audited the internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements of NTPC
Limited (hereinafter referred to as “the Holding Company”) and its subsidiaries (the Holding Company and its subsidiaries Opinion
together referred to as “the Group”), and joint ventures, which are companies incorporated in India, as of that date. In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the Holding Company, its
subsidiaries and joint ventures, which are companies incorporated in India, have, in all material respects, an adequate internal
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls
financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements in place and such internal financial controls with
The respective Board of Directors of the Holding Company, its subsidiaries, and joint ventures, which are companies reference to Consolidated Financial Statements were operating effectively as at 31 March 2024, based on the internal controls
incorporated in India, are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal controls over financial reporting criteria established by the Group and its Joint Venture Companies incorporated in India considering
over financial reporting criteria established by the respective companies considering the essential components of internal the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial
control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Reporting issued by ICAI.
Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI). These responsibilities include the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate
internal financial controls that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, Other Matters
including adherence to the respective company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection of
Our aforesaid report under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act on the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the internal financial
frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable financial
controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements of the Holding Company, in so far as it relates to nine subsidiaries
information, as required under the Act.
and six joint ventures incorporated in India, is based on the corresponding reports of the auditors of such companies
Auditors’ Responsibility incorporated in India.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Our aforesaid report under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act on the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the internal financial
Statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements in so far as it relates to one subsidiary and seven joint ventures
Controls over Financial Reporting (the “Guidance Note”) and the Standards on Auditing prescribed under section 143(10) of incorporated in India, whose financial statements / financial information are unaudited and our opinion on the adequacy
the Act, to the extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements. and operating effectiveness of the internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements of the
Those Standards and the Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit Group is not affected as the Group’s share of net profit/loss (including Other Comprehensive Income) and disclosures included
to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial in respect of these joint ventures in these Consolidated Financial Statements are not material to the Group.
Statements was established and maintained and if such controls operated effectively in all material respects.
Our report is not modified in respect of the above matters.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial control with
reference to Consolidated Financial Statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls
For Vinod Kumar & Associates For Goyal Parul & Co For M. C. Bhandari & Co.
with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements included obtaining an understanding of internal financial controls with
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants
reference to Consolidated Financial Statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating
FRN-002304N FRN-016750N FRN- 303002E
the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on the
auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the Consolidated Financial Statements,
(Mukesh Dadhich) (Parul Goyal) (Amit Biswas)
whether due to fraud or error.
Partner Partner Partner
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained and the audit evidence obtained by the other auditors of the subsidiaries M. No. 511741 M. No. 099172 M. No. 052296
and joint ventures, incorporated in India, in terms of their reports referred to in the ‘Other Matters’ paragraph below, is UDIN:24511741BJZYRB2984 UDIN:24099172BKBKAH8861 UDIN:24052296BKFZHV4107
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the internal financial controls of the Group and its Joint
Venture Companies incorporated in India, with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements
For J K S S & Associates For Agasti & Associates For S.N. Kapur & Associates
A company’s internal financial control with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements is a process designed to provide Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements FRN-006836C FRN-313043E FRN-001545C
for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal financial control
with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance (Ram Babu) (B. Agasti) (S. N. Kapur)
of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; Partner Partner Partner
(2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of Consolidated Financial M. No. 016151 M. No. 051026 M. No. 014335
Statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company UDIN: 24016151BKDEWF1744 UDIN: 24051026BKGTSO4352 UDIN: 24014335BJZZMZ8228
are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the Place: New Delhi
company’s assets that could have a material effect on the Consolidated Financial Statements. Dated: 24 May, 2024
Digitally signed by signatories
656 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 657
THE COMPTROLLER AND AUDITOR GENERAL OF INDIA UNDER SECTION 143(6)(b) READ
Comment Management Reply
WITH SECTION 129 (4) OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013 ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL During the year 2023-24, the Company as a standalone was NTPC has met these conditions and hence has a right to set-
STATEMENTS OF NTPC LIMITED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 AND MANAGEMENT required to spend an amount of ` 337.98 crore towards CSR. off the excess spent in the earlier years in the succeeding years
However, it spent an amount of ` 200.57 crore and adjusted against its CSR obligations as per the Rules.
REPLIES THEREON
an amount of ` 137.41 crore from excess CSR spending in
NTPC has been consistently complying with CSR spending
previous years. This was in violation of the Companies Act,
The preparation of consolidated financial statements of NTPC Limited for the year ended 31 March 2024 in accordance with requirements as mandated under the Companies Act and is
2013 as the Company had not created assets in respect of
the financial reporting framework prescribed under the Companies Act, 2013 (Act) is the responsibility of the management also committed to spend the minimum amount as per the
excess CSR spending in previous years. Therefore,
of the company. The statutory auditors appointed by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India under section 139(5) read requirements under CSR rules. As per the aforesaid
adjustment of the excess CSR spending in previous years
with section 129(4) of the Act are responsible for expressing opinion on the financial statements under section 143 read with requirement, the excess spent available at the end of 31 March
towards current year’s obligation has led to shortfall in
section 129(4) of the Act based on independent audit in accordance with the standards on auditing prescribed under section 2023 amounting to ` 225.19 crore has been approved by the
spending minimum stipulated CSR obligation to the extent
143(10) of the Act. This is stated to have been done by them vide their Audit Report dated 24 May 2024. Board in its meeting held on 19 May 2023 to be carried forward
of ` 137.41 crore which should have been shown as current
in the succeeding years, in line with the provisions of CSR
I, on behalf of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India, have conducted a supplementary audit of the consolidated liability on account of CSR obligation.
policy rules stated above.
financial statements of NTPC Limited for the year ended 31 March 2024 under Section 143(6)(a) read with section 129(4) of
This has resulted in understatement of ‘Other expenses’ as
the Act. We conducted a supplementary audit of financial statements of NTPC Limited, and subsidiaries, associate companies In all the earlier years, there was no necessity to adjust from
well as ‘Current liabilities -Other current liabilities’ by
and jointly controlled entities listed in Annexure I but did not conduct supplementary audit of the financial statements of the carried forward amounts and the actual expenses itself
` 137.41 crore each.
subsidiaries, associate companies and jointly controlled entities listed in Annexure II for the year ended on that date. Further, were more than the 2% requirement. In view of this trend of
section 139(5) and 143(6)(a) of the Act are not applicable to Utility Powertech Limited and NTPC - GE Power Services Private past, the Company has not created any asset for the excess
Limited being private entities and Tricomalee Power Company Limited and Bangladesh - India Friendship Power Company spent with a disclosure in the financial statements that “The
Private Limited being incorporated in foreign country(ies) under the respective laws, for appointment of their Statutory set off available in the succeeding years is not recognised as
Auditors and for conduct of supplementary audit. Accordingly, Comptroller and Auditor General of India has neither appointed an asset as a matter of prudence, considering the uncertainty
the Statutory Auditors nor conducted the supplementary audit of these companies. This supplementary audit has been involved in the adjustment of the same in future years.”
carried out independently without access to the working papers of the statutory auditors and is limited primarily to inquiries
The Company has incurred an amount of ` 200.57 crore during
of the statutory auditors and company personnel and a selective examination of some of the accounting records.
the year 2023-24 and utilised an amount of ` 137.41 crore
Based on my supplementary audit, I would like to highlight the following significant matter under section 143(6)(b) which out of the duly approved carried forwarded amount and duly
has come to my attention and which in my view is necessary for enabling a better understanding of the financial statements met the CSR expenditure obligation of ` 337.98 crore as per
and the related audit report: the applicable provisions of Companies Act, 2013 read with
relevant Rules.
Comment Management Reply
Since the CSR obligation as per Section 135 of the Companies
Statement of Profit and Loss
Act, 2013 read with applicable CSR rules has been complied
Expenses-Other Expenses (Note No. 48): ````` 16,821.39 crore with, need for creation of a provision during the year 2023-
24 for the amount equivalent to the set off availed as per
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Expenses: ````` 254.62
Rules, does not arise.
crore
The provisions of Companies Act, 2013 prevail over technical
As per section 135 (5) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule The Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy)
guidance given by ICAI and the Company has complied with
7(3) of the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Amendment Rules, 2021 notified on 22 January 2021, provides
the requirements of the Companies Act, 2013 as stated above.
Policy) Amendment Rules, 2021, if the company spends an vide Rule 7 (3) that Where a company spends an amount in
As such, there is no understatement of ‘Other expenses’ and
amount in excess of requirements provided under this excess of requirement provided under sub-section (5) of section
‘Current liabilities -Other current liabilities’.
section (2%), such excess amount may be set off against the 135, such excess amount may be set off against the
requirement to spend under this sub-section for such requirement to spend under sub-section (5) of section 135 up
number of succeeding financial years as may be prescribed to immediate succeeding three financial years subject to the
(three years). Further, Technical Guidance of ICAI on CSR conditions that –
Accounting provides that if the company decides to adjust For and on behalf of the For and on behalf of the
(i) the excess amount available for set off shall not include
such excess spent amount against its future CSR obligation, Comptroller & Auditor General of India Board of Directors
the surplus arising out of the CSR activities, if any, in
the same is to be recognized as an asset and if it decides
pursuance of sub-rule (2) of this rule.
not to carry forward the same, such excess spent amount is
to be recognized as an expense. (ii) the Board of the company shall pass a resolution to that Sd/- Sd/-
effect.
(S. Ahlladini Panda) (Gurdeep Singh)
Director General of Audit (Energy) Chairman and Managing Director
Place : New Delhi Place : New Delhi
Dated: 01 August, 2024 Dated : 02 August 2024
658 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 659
ANNEXURE-I NTPC Limited
List of Subsidiaries, Associate Companies and Jointly Controlled Entities whose financial statements were audited by the
CIN: L40101DL1975GOI007966
Comptroller and Auditor General of India
Regd. Office: NTPC Bhawan, SCOPE Complex, 7, Institutional Area, Lodi Road,
New Delhi-110 003
A. Subsidiaries
Tel. no.: 011-24360959 Fax: 011-24360241
1. NTPC Vidyut Vyapar Nigam Limited Email: csntpc@ntpc.co.in Website: www.ntpc.co.in
2. Bhartiya Rail Bijlee Company Limited
NOTICE
3. Patratu Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Limited
NOTICE is hereby given that the 48th Annual General Meeting of the Members of NTPC Limited will be held on Thursday, 29th
4. THDC Limited
August 2024 at 10.30 A.M. (IST) through Video Conferencing (“VC”)/ Other Audio-Visual Means (“OAVM”), to transact the
5. North Eastern Electric Power Corporation Limited following businesses:
6. NTPC EDMC Waste Solutions Private Limited
ORDINARY BUSINESS:
7. NTPC Green Energy Limited
1. To consider and adopt Audited Standalone & Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company for the financial year
B. Associate Companies and Joint Ventures ended 31st March 2024, the reports of the Board of Directors and Auditors thereon and, in this regard, to consider and
if thought fit, to pass, with or without modification(s), the following resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
1. Aravali Power Company Private Limited,
Resolved that the audited Standalone & Consolidated financial statement of the Company for the financial year ended
2. Meja Urja Nigam Private Limited
31st March 2024 and the reports of the Board of Directors and Auditors thereon, as circulated to the Members, be and
3. NTPC -SAIL Power Company Limited are hereby considered and adopted.
4. Jhabua Power Limited 2. To confirm payment of interim dividend and declare final dividend for the financial year 2023-24 and in this regard, to
consider and if thought fit, to pass, with or without modification(s), the following resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
5. NTPC Tamilnadu Energy Company Limited
Resolved that an interim dividend @ 45% (Rs.4.50 per equity share of Rs.10/-) on the paid- up equity share capital of the
ANNEXURE-II Company and final dividend @ 32.50% (Rs. 3.25 per equity share of Rs.10/-) as recommended by the Board of Directors
be and is hereby declared out of the profits of the Company for the financial year 2023-24.
List of Subsidiaries, Associate Companies and Jointly Controlled Entities whose financial statements were not audited by
the Comptroller and Auditor General of India 3. To appoint Shri Piyush Surendrapal Singh (DIN: 07492389) Government Nominee Director, who retires by rotation as a
Director and in this regard, to consider and if thought fit, to pass, with or without modification(s), the following resolution
Subsidiaries
as an Ordinary Resolution:
1. NTPC Electric Supply Company Limited
Resolved that in accordance with the provisions of Section 152 and other applicable provisions of the Companies Act,
2. NTPC Mining Limited 2013, Shri Piyush Surendrapal Singh (DIN: 07492389), who retires by rotation at this meeting, be and is hereby re-
appointed as a Director of the Company.
3. Ratnagiri Gas & Power Private Limited
4. To fix the remuneration of the Statutory Auditors for the financial year 2024-25 and, in this regard, to consider and if
Associate Companies and Joint Ventures thought fit, to pass, with or without modification(s), the following resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
1. NTPC -BHEL Power Projects Private Limited Resolved that the Board of Directors of the Company be and is hereby authorised to fix an appropriate remuneration of
2. Transformers & Electricals Kerala Limited Statutory Auditors of the Company, appointed by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India for the financial year
2024-25.
3. National High Power Test Laboratory Private Limited
4. Energy Efficiency Services Limited SPECIAL BUSINESS:
5. Hindustan Urvarak & Rasayan Limited 5. To appoint Shri K. Shanmugha Sundaram (DIN: 10347322), as Director (Projects) of the Company and in this regard to
consider and if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
6. Anushakti Vidhyut Nigam Limited
Resolved that pursuant to the provisions of Section 149, 152 and other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies
7. CIL NTPC Urja Private Limited
Act, 2013, rules made thereunder, and other applicable provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 Shri K. Shanmugha Sundaram (DIN: 10347322), who was
appointed as Director (Projects), by the President of India vide Ministry of Power Order No. 8/12/2022-Th-1 dated 08th
November, 2023 and subsequently appointed as an Additional Director and designated as Director (Projects) by the
Board of Directors with effect from 01st December, 2023 to hold office until the date of this Annual General Meeting, in
terms of Section 161 of the Companies Act, 2013 be and is hereby appointed as Director (Projects) of the Company on
terms & conditions as may be fixed by the Government of India and he shall be liable to retire by rotation.
660 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 661
6. To appoint Shri Ravindra Kumar (DIN: 10523088), as Director (Operations) of the Company and in this regard to consider Conferencing (‘VC’) facility / Other Audio Visual Means (‘OAVM’), without the physical presence of the Members at a
and if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as an Ordinary Resolution: common venue. In compliance with the applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’), the Securities and
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (‘SEBI Listing Regulations’)
Resolved that pursuant to the provisions of Section 149, 152 and other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies
and the MCA Circulars and the SEBI Circulars, the AGM of the Company is being held through VC / OAVM. The deemed
Act, 2013, rules made thereunder, and other applicable provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing
venue for the AGM shall be the Registered Office of the Company.
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 Shri Ravindra Kumar (DIN: 10523088), who was appointed
as Director (Operations), by the President of India vide Ministry of Power Order No. 8/2/2023-Th-1 dated 25th February, 2. In compliance with the statutory guidelines, Notice of the AGM along with the Annual Report 2023-24 is being sent only
2024 and subsequently appointed as an Additional Director and designated as Director (Operations) by the Board of through electronic mode to those Members whose email addresses are registered with the Company/Depository
Directors with effect from 26th February, 2024 to hold office until the date of this Annual General Meeting, in terms of participant/ Depositories. Members may please note that the Notice and Annual Report 2023-24 will also be available
Section 161 of the Companies Act, 2013 be and is hereby appointed as Director (Operations) of the Company on terms on the Company’s website www.ntpc.co.in, websites of the Stock Exchanges, i.e., BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange
& conditions as may be fixed by the Government of India and he shall be liable to retire by rotation. of India Limited at www.bseindia.com and www.nseindia.com respectively. The AGM Notice is also disseminated on the
website of NSDL (agency for providing the Remote e-Voting facility and e-voting system during the AGM) i.e.
7. To ratify the remuneration of the Cost Auditors for the financial year 2024-25 and in this regard to consider and if
https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/ . Shareholders are advised to contact RTA, at the address mentioned in Para 13 below,
thought fit, to pass the following resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
with details like name, folio no. and self-attested copy of PAN & AADHAR in order to update their email ID.
Resolved that pursuant to the provisions of Section 148 and all other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013
3. Since this AGM is being held through VC / OAVM pursuant to the MCA Circulars, physical attendance of members has
and the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 [including any statutory modification(s)], the Company hereby
been dispensed with. Accordingly, the facility for appointment of proxies by the members will not be available for this
ratifies the remuneration of Rs.47,40,000/- (Rupees Forty Seven Lakh and Forty Thousand only) as approved by the
AGM. Hence, Proxy Form and Attendance Slip are not annexed hereto. However, in terms of the provisions of Section
Board of Directors payable to Cost Auditors appointed by the Board of Directors of the Company to conduct the audit of
112 and Section 113 of the Act, representatives of the Members such as the President of India or the Governor of a State
the cost records of the Company for the financial year 2024-25 as per detail set out in the Statement annexed to the
or body corporate can attend the AGM through VC/OAVM and cast their votes through e-voting.
Notice convening this Meeting.
4. The attendance of the Members attending the AGM through VC/OAVM will be counted for the purpose of ascertaining
Further resolved that the Board of Directors of the Company be and is hereby authorised to do all acts, deeds, matters
the quorum under Section 103 of the Companies Act, 2013.
and things as may be considered necessary, desirable or expedient for giving effect to this resolution.
5. The Board has appointed Shri Sachin Agarwal, Partner, Agarwal S. & Associates, Company Secretaries as scrutinizer for e-
8. To raise funds up to Rs. 12,000 Crore through issue of Non-Convertible Debentures (NCDs/Bonds) on Private Placement
voting.
basis and in this regard to consider and if thought fit, to pass following resolution as a Special Resolution:
6. Members of the Company under the category of Institutional Investors are requested to attend and vote at the AGM
Resolved that pursuant to Section 42 and other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 14 (1)
through VC. Corporate Members/ Institutional Investors intending to appoint their authorized representatives pursuant
of the Companies (Prospectus and Allotment of Securities) Rules, 2014 and any other applicable statutory provisions
to Section 113 of the Act, to attend the AGM through VC or OAVM or to vote through remote e-voting are requested to
(including any statutory modification or re-enactments thereof) the Board of Directors of the Company (the “Board”) be
send a certified copy of the Board Resolution to the Scrutinizer by e-mail at asacs2022@gmail.com.
and are hereby authorized to make offer(s) or invitation(s) to subscribe to the secured/unsecured, redeemable, taxable/
tax-free, cumulative/non-cumulative, non-convertible debentures (“NCDs/Bonds”) up to Rs.12,000 Crore in one or more 7. Pursuant to Section 139 of the Companies Act, 2013, the Auditors of a Government Company are to be appointed or re-
tranches/series not exceeding 12 (twelve), through private placement, in domestic market for capex, working capital appointed by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (C&AG) and in pursuant to Section 142 of the Companies Act,
and general corporate purposes, during the period commencing from the date of passing of Special Resolution till 2013, their remuneration is to be fixed by the Company in the Annual General Meeting or in such manner as the Company
completion of one year thereof or the date of next Annual General Meeting in the financial year 2025-26, whichever is in general meeting may determine. The Members of the Company, in 47th Annual General Meeting held on 30th August,
earlier, in conformity with rules, regulations, notifications and enactments as may be applicable from time to time, 2023, had authorized the Board of Directors to fix the remuneration of Statutory Auditors for the financial year 2023-24.
subject to the total borrowings of the Company approved by the shareholders under Section 180 (1) (c) of Companies Accordingly, the Board of Directors has fixed audit fee of Rs.2,70,48,000/- (Rupees Two Crore Seventy Lakh Fourty Eight
Act, 2013. Thousand only) for the Statutory Auditors for the financial year 2023-24 in addition to applicable GST and reimbursement
of actual traveling and out-of-pocket expenses for visits to accounting units. The Statutory Auditors of the Company for
Further Resolved that the Board be and is hereby authorized to do or delegate from time to time, all such acts, deeds
the year 2024-25 are yet to be appointed by the C&AG. Accordingly, the Members may authorize the Board to fix an
and things as may be deemed necessary to give effect to private placement of such NCDs including but not limited to
appropriate remuneration of Statutory Auditors as may be deemed fit by the Board for the year 2024-25.
determining the face value, issue price, issue size, tenor, timing, amount, security, coupon/interest rate, yield, listing,
allotment and other terms and conditions of issue of NCDs as it may, in its absolute discretion, consider necessary. 8. The relevant explanatory statement pursuant to Section 102 of the Companies Act, 2013, in respect of Special Businesses,
as set out above is annexed hereto.
9. A brief resume of the Directors seeking appointment or re-appointment at Annual General Meeting (AGM), as required
By order of the Board of Directors
under Regulation 36 of SEBI Listing Regulations, is annexed hereto and forms part of the Notice.
Sd/- 10. None of the Directors of the Company is in any way related with each other.
Place: New Delhi (Ritu Arora)
Date: 2 August 2024 Company Secretary DIVIDEND
11. The Board of Directors, in its meeting held on 28th October, 2023 had declared the first interim dividend @22.50 %
Notes: - (Rs.2.25 per share) on the paid-up equity share capital of the Company which was paid on 23rd November, 2023. Further,
the Board of Directors, in its meeting held on 29th January, 2024 had declared the second interim dividend @ 22.50 %
1. The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (‘MCA‘) has vide its General Circulars dated 8th April, 2020, 13th April, 2020, 5th May,
(Rs.2.25 per share) on the paid-up equity share capital of the Company which was paid on 22nd February, 2024. Further,
2020, 13th January, 2021, 14th December, 2021, 05th May, 2022, 28th December, 2022 and 25th September, 2023 and other
the Board of Directors, in its Meeting held on 24th May, 2024 has recommended a final dividend @ 32.50% (Rs.3.25 per
circulars issued from time to time (collectively referred to as ‘MCA Circulars‘) and SEBI vide circular dated 6th October,
share) on the paid-up equity share capital of the Company.
2023 (referred to as ‘SEBI Circulars’)permitted the holding of the Annual General Meeting (‘AGM‘) through Video
662 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 663
12. The Company has fixed Wednesday, 7th August, 2024 as record date for the purpose of payment of the final dividend. from time to time. Members are advised to visit the web-link: https://www.ntpc.co.in/iepf-details to check details of
Final dividend, if approved at the AGM shall be paid on or after Wednesday, 11th September, 2024. shares transferred to IEPF authority. The procedure for claiming shares from IEPF account is also available on the website
of the Company.
TDS on dividend
16. Unclaimed Final dividend for the financial year 2016-17 will be due for transfer to the Investor Education and Protection
13. Pursuant to the Finance Act, 2020, dividend income is taxable in the hands of the Shareholders w.e.f. 01st April, 2020 and Fund of the Central Government on or before 23rd November, 2024 pursuant to the provisions of Section 124 of the
the Company is required to deduct TDS from dividend paid to the Members at rates prescribed under the Income Tax Companies Act, 2013. Accordingly, corresponding shares on which dividend has not been paid or claimed for seven
Act, 1961 (“IT Act”). To enable compliance with TDS requirements, Members are requested to complete and / or update consecutive years shall also be liable to be transferred to the account of IEPF. Unclaimed interest on Tax Free Bonds 2013
their Residential Status, PAN, Category as per the IT Act with their Depository Participants (‘DPs’) or in case shares are and Tax-Free Bonds 2015 paid in 2017-18 will be due for transfer to the Investor Education and Protection Fund of the
held in physical form, with the Company/RTA by sending the required documents by 16th August, 2024. For the detailed Central Government on 16th December, 2024 and 5th October, 2024, respectively. Further, Unclaimed interest on Bonus
process, please visit website of the Company https://www.ntpc.co.in/investor-updates/dividend-tds-communication. Debenture paid in 2017-18 will be due for transfer to the Investor Education and Protection Fund of the Central
The aforesaid documents, as applicable, are required to be emailed at tdsdiv@ntpc.co.in and dividend.ntpc@taxcpc.com, Government on or before 25th March, 2025.
to enable the Company to determine the appropriate TDS rates. Communication on the tax determination/deduction
received post 16th August, 2024, 1730 Hours (IST) shall not be considered for payment of the Final Dividend. WEBCASTING
Further, in order to receive the dividend in a timely manner, Members holding shares in physical form who have not 17. In compliance with the provisions of Regulation 44(6) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Company shall provide live
updated their mandate for receiving the dividends directly in their bank accounts through Electronic Clearing Service or webcast of proceedings of AGM from 10.30 A.M. (IST) onwards on Thursday, 29th August 2024.
any other means are requested to send the following documents to our RTA - Beetal Financial & Computer Services Pvt.
Ltd. at 3rd Floor, Beetal House, 99, Madangir, Delhi-110062: PROCEDURE FOR INSPECTION OF DOCUMENTS
a) A signed request letter by the first holder, mentioning the name, folio number, complete address and following 18. The Register of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel and their shareholding maintained under Section 170 of the Act,
details relating to bank account in which the dividend is to be received: the Register of Contracts or Arrangements in which the directors are interested, maintained under Section 189 of the
Act will be available electronically for inspection by the members during the AGM. All documents referred to in the
i. Name of Bank and Bank Branch;
Notice will also be available electronically for inspection without any fee by the members from the date of circulation of
ii. Bank Account Number & Type allotted by your bank after implementation of Core Banking Solutions; and this Notice and up to the date of AGM. Members seeking to inspect such documents can send an email to
agm2024@ntpc.co.in.
iii. 11-digit IFSC Code;
iv. 9 digit MICR Code. OTHER INFORMATION
b) Original cancelled cheque bearing the name of the Member or first holder, in case shares are held jointly; 19. Members holding shares in multiple folios in physical mode are requested to apply for consolidation to the Company or
its Registrar & Transfer Agent (RTA) along with relevant Share Certificates.
c) Self-attested copy of the PAN Card; and
20. SEBI, vide notification dated 8th June, 2018 read with notification dated 24th January 2022, any requests for effecting
d) Self-attested copy of any document (such as AADHAR Card, Driving License, Election Identity Card, Passport) in
transfer/ transposition/ transmission of securities shall not be processed unless the securities are held in the dematerialized
support of the address of the Member as registered with the Company.
form with a depository. Accordingly, Shareholders holding shares in physical form, are advised to dematerialize their
Members holding shares in demat form may please note that their bank details as furnished by the respective DPs to the
shares.
Company will be considered for remittance of dividend as per the applicable regulations of the DPs and the Company
21. SEBI vide its circular dated 16th March, 2023 mandated all listed companies to record PAN, Nomination and Contact
will not entertain any direct request from such Members for change/addition/deletion in such bank details. Accordingly,
details, Bank A/c details and specimen signature for their corresponding folio numbers of holders of physical securities.
the Members holding shares in demat form are requested to update their Electronic Bank Mandate with their respective
The Company has completed the process of sending letters through its RTA to the Members holding shares in physical
DPs. Any instruction pertaining to the remittance of dividend would not be entertained other than the particulars that
form in relation to above referred SEBI Circular. Members holding shares in electronic form are requested to submit their
are mapped with the DPs.
details to their Depository Participant(s).
INVESTOR EDUCATION AND PROTECTION FUND 22. Members, holding shares in physical form, may avail the facility of nomination in terms of Section 72 of the Companies
14. Pursuant to the provisions of section 124(5) of the Companies Act, 2013, read with Regulation 61A of Securities and Act, 2013 by nominating in the Form-SH 13 as prescribed in the Companies (Share Capital & Debentures) Rules, 2014,
Exchange Board of India (LODR) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2021, the Company has transferred the unpaid or any person to whom their shares in the Company shall vest on occurrence of event stated in the Form. Persons holding
unclaimed Final dividend for the financial year 2015-16, Interim dividend for the financial year 2016-17, unclaimed shares in physical form may send Form-SH 13 in duplicate to RTA of the Company. In case of shares held in dematerialized
interest on Tax Free Bonds 2013 paid in 2016-17, unclaimed interest on Tax Free Bonds 2015 paid in 2016-17 and unclaimed form, the nomination has to be lodged with the respective DP.
interest on Bonus Debenture for the financial year 2016-17 to the Investor Education and Protection Fund (IEPF) established 23. Annual listing fee for the year 2024-25 has been paid to all Stock Exchanges wherein shares of the Company are listed.
by the Central Government. Pursuant to the provisions of IEPF Rules & amendments thereto, the Company has uploaded Also, the Annual Custodian Fee for the year 2024-25 was paid to both Depositories i.e. Central Depository Services
the details of unpaid and unclaimed amounts lying with the Company as on the date of closure of financial year i.e. 31st (India) Limited and National Securities Depository Limited.
March, 2024 on the website of the Company (www.ntpc.co.in) and also on the website of the Ministry of Corporate
24. Since the AGM will be held through VC/OAVM, the route map of the venue of the Meeting is not annexed hereto.
Affairs (https://www.iepf.gov.in) as per timelines stated in IEPF Rules.
15. Attention of the members is drawn to the provisions of Section 124(6) of the Act which require a company to transfer all
shares in respect of which dividend has not been paid or claimed for 7 (seven) consecutive years or more, in the name of
IEPF Authority. In accordance with the aforesaid provisions of the Act read with the Investor Education and Protection
Fund Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016, Company has transferred shares to the IEPF authority
664 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 665
Annexure to Notice Item No. 8: To raise funds up to Rs. 12,000 Crore through issue of Non-Convertible Debentures (NCDs/ Bonds)on Private
Placement basis
EXPLANATORY STATEMENT PURSUANT TO SECTION 102 OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013
The Company is the largest power producer in India. As the Company is under capacity expansion mode, major portion of
The following statement sets out all material facts relating to Special Businesses mentioned in the accompanying notice: capital expenditure requirement of the Company has to be funded by debt. The Company borrows in the form of NCDs,
rupee term loans from banks and financial institutions, foreign currency borrowings, foreign currency bonds etc. The NCDs
Item No. 5: Appointment of Shri K. Shanmugha Sundaram (DIN: 10347322) as Director (Projects) are raised by the Company under public issue route or through private placement basis.
Shri K. Shanmugha Sundaram (DIN: 10347322), was appointed as Director (Projects), by the President of India vide Ministry In addition to capital expenditure requirement as explained above, Company also needs to borrow for meeting its working
of Power Order No. 8/12/2022-Th-1 dated 08th November, 2023 till the date of superannuation or until further orders, whichever capital requirement and other general corporate purposes which is partly proposed to be met through issuance of NCDs.
is earlier and was accordingly appointed as an Additional Director w.e.f. the date of taking over charge and to hold office up
The provisions of Section 42 of Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 14(1) of the Companies (Prospectus and Allotment of
to this Annual General Meeting on the basis of recommendation of Nomination & Remuneration Committee including PRP.
Securities) Rules, 2014 require the Company to seek a Special Resolution from its shareholders for raising the NCDs on
He has taken charge as Director (Projects), NTPC on 01st December, 2023. The terms and conditions regulating the appointment
private placement basis. However, in case of offer or invitation for “non-convertible debentures”, it shall be sufficient, if the
of Shri K. Shanmugha Sundaram as Director (Projects) shall be determined by the Government of India. The Company has
Company passes a previous Special Resolution only once in a year for all the offers or invitations for such debentures during
received a requisite notice pursuant to the provisions of Section 160 of the Companies Act, 2013 in respect of appointment
the year.
of Shri K. Shanmugha Sundaram.
In view of the above, approval of the Shareholders of the Company is being sought to authorize the Board of Directors to
His brief resume, inter-alia, giving nature of expertise in specific functional area, shareholding in the Company, other
make offer(s) or invitation(s) to subscribe to the secured/unsecured, redeemable, taxable/tax-free, cumulative/non-cumulative,
Directorship, Membership/ Chairmanship of Committees and other particulars are enclosed with this notice.
non-convertible debentures (“NCDs/Bonds”) up to Rs.12,000 Crore in one or more tranches/series not exceeding 12 (twelve),
None of the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel of the Company or their relatives except Shri K. Shanmugha Sundaram, is in through private placement, in domestic market for capex, working capital and general corporate purposes during the period
any way, concerned or interested, financially or otherwise, in the resolution. commencing from the date of passing of Special Resolution till completion of one year thereof or the date of next Annual
General Meeting in the financial year 2025-26, whichever is earlier, subject to ceiling approved by the shareholders under
The Board recommends the resolution for your approval.
Section 180 (1) (c) of Companies Act, 2013.
Item No. 6: Appointment of Shri Ravindra Kumar (DIN: 10523088) as Director (Operations) The Board of Directors of the Company in its Meeting held on 29th June, 2024 has approved the proposal and recommends
the passing of the proposed Special Resolution.
Shri Ravindra Kumar (DIN: 10523088), was appointed as Director (Operations), by the President of India vide Ministry of
Power Order No. 8/2/2023-Th-1 dated 25th February, 2024 till the date of superannuation or until further orders, whichever The Directors or key managerial personnel or their relatives do not have any concern or interest, financial or otherwise, in
is earlier and was accordingly appointed as an Additional Director w.e.f. the date of taking over charge and to hold office up passing of the said Special Resolution, except to the extent of their shareholding in the Company.
to this Annual General Meeting on the basis of recommendation of Nomination & Remuneration Committee including PRP.
He has taken charge as Director (Operations), NTPC on 26th February, 2023. The terms and conditions regulating the
appointment of Shri Ravindra Kumar as Director (Operations) shall be determined by the Government of India. The Company By order of the Board of Directors
has received a requisite notice pursuant to the provisions of Section 160 of the Companies Act, 2013 in respect of appointment
of Shri Ravindra Kumar. Sd/-
Place: New Delhi (Ritu Arora)
His brief resume, inter-alia, giving nature of expertise in specific functional area, shareholding in the Company, other
Date: 2 August 2024 Company Secretary
Directorship, Membership/ Chairmanship of Committees and other particulars are enclosed with this notice.
None of the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel of the Company or their relatives except Shri Ravindra Kumar, is in any way,
concerned or interested, financially or otherwise, in the resolution.
The Board recommends the resolution for your approval.
Item No. 7: Ratification of Remuneration payable to Cost Auditors
Based on recommendation of Audit Committee, appointment of Cost Auditors for the Financial year 2024-25 was decided by
the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors in its meeting held on Saturday, 27th July 2024 has accorded approval for
payment of total fee of Rs.47,40,000/-(Rupees Forty Seven Lakh Forty Thousand only) for cost audit for the Financial year
2024-25. The fee structure for cost audit is broadly based on station capacity and number of stations. The reimbursement of
applicable statutory taxes/ levies shall be in addition to fees.
As per Rule 14 of Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 read with Section 148(3) of the Companies Act, 2013, the
remuneration recommended by the Audit Committee shall be considered and approved by the Board of Directors and ratified
subsequently by the shareholders.
Accordingly, members are requested to ratify the remuneration payable to the Cost Auditors for the financial year 2024-25.
The Board of Directors recommended the passing of the proposed Resolution by members of the Company.
The Directors or Key Managerial Personnel or their relatives do not have any concern or interest, financial or otherwise, in
passing of the said Ordinary Resolution, except to the extent of their shareholding in the Company.
666 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 667
Brief Resume of Directors seeking appointment/re-appointment A. LOGIN METHOD FOR E-VOTING AND JOINING VIRTUAL MEETINGS FOR INDIVIDUAL SHAREHOLDERS HOLDING
SECURITIES IN DEMAT MODE
Name Shri Piyush Surendrapal Singh Shri K. Shanmugha Sundaram Shri Ravindra Kumar
Step 1: Access to NSDL e-Voting system
Date of Birth & 26/10/1976 21/05/1967 02/10/1967
Age 47 years 57 years 56 years A) Login method for e-Voting and joining virtual meeting for Individual shareholders holding securities in demat
mode
Date of 31/05/2022 01/12/2023 26/02/2024
Appointment In terms of SEBI Master circular dated 11th July, 2023 on e-Voting facility provided by Listed Companies, Individual
Qualifications B. Tech (Civil) from IIT Delhi Electronics and Communication B.Sc. (Engineering) in Mechanical shareholders holding securities in demat mode are allowed to vote through their demat account maintained with
Engineering graduate from Govt. College of engineering from BIT Sindri Depositories and Depository Participants. Shareholders are advised to update their mobile number and email Id in
Technology, Coimbatore and PGDM from their demat accounts in order to access e-Voting facility.
MDI Gurgaon in the area of Strategy &
Login method for Individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode is given below:
Finance
Expertise in Specific He is a 2000 Batch IAS officer He joined NTPC as Graduate Engineer He joined NTPC Limited as Graduate Type of shareholders Login Method
Functional Area from Maharashtra Cadre. He Trainee officer in 1988 and has more than Engineer Trainee officer in 1989 and has
Individual 1. Existing IDeAS (Internet-based Demat Account Statement)user can visit the e-Services
worked in various capacities in 35 years of diverse and versatile experience more than 34 years of diverse and versatile
Shareholders holding website of NSDL Viz. https://eservices.nsdl.com either on a Personal Computer or
District Administration, in Project as well as Commissioning stages experience in Commissioning, O&M,
securities in demat on a mobile. On the e-Services home page click on the "Beneficial Owner" icon under
Department of Social Justice & of 110, 210, 500, 660 and 800 MW fleets, Engineering and Project management. He
mode with NSDL. "Login" which is available under 'IDeAS' section, this will prompt you to enter your
Empowerment and across various states in India. He was has exposure of working at Corporate
existing User ID and Password. After successful authentication, you will be able to
Department of health & family actively involved for the development of 1st Centre in Engineering department and as a
see e-Voting services under Value added services. Click on "Access to e-Voting" under
welfare, Government of supercritical power project of NTPC at Sipat technical support to Director (Technical). He
e-Voting services and you will be able to see e-Voting page. Click on company name
Maharashtra. He also served in and has worked in various capacities at was actively involved in development of 1st
Uttrakhand in Planning NTPC Darlipali Project. During his tenure Maitree supercritical power project of or e-Voting service provider i.e. NSDL and you will be re-directed to e-Voting website
department, Dehradun. He has as Head of Project at NTPC Barauni (720 Bangladesh India Friendship Power of NSDL for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period or joining virtual
wide experience in the area of MW), a taken over Project from Bihar State Company Limited (BIFPCL), Bangladesh. meeting & voting during the meeting.
Public Administration and Electricity Board, project commissioning During his tenure as Chief Technical Officer
2. If you are not registered for IDeAS e-Services, option to register is available at
Planning. was accomplished. As Head of Project at (CTO), he spearheaded all Engineering,
https://eservices.nsdl.com. Select "Register Online for IDeAS Portal" or click at
Talcher Kaniha (3000 MW), he was erection and O&M activities of 660 MW 1st
https://eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/IdeasDirectReg.jsp
influential in improving the performance of Unit of BIFPCL.As Chief Executive Officer
the station which has ensured CII-ITC (CEO), Patratu Vidyut Utpadan Nigam 3. Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the following URL:
Sustainability award and also construction Limited, he expedited various construction https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/ either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile. Once
of FGD. and erection activities. the home page of e-Voting system is launched, click on the icon "Login" which is
Directorship held in 1) Northen Eastern Electric 1) Aravali Power Company Private 1) NTPC SAIL Power Company Limited available under 'Shareholder/Member' section. A new screen will open. You will have
other companies Power Corpn Ltd Limited 2) Jhabua Power Limited to enter your User ID (i.e. your sixteen digit demat account number hold with NSDL),
Password/OTP and a Verification Code as shown on the screen. After successful
2) THDC India Limited 2) Meja Urja Nigam Private Limited 3) NTPC GE Power Services Private
authentication, you will be redirected to NSDL Depository site wherein you can see
3) NTPC Renewable Energy Limited Limited
e-Voting page. Click on company name or e-Voting service provider i.e. NSDL and
4) NTPC Green Energy Limited 4) NTPC Tamil Nadu Energy Company
you will be redirected to e-Voting website of NSDL for casting your vote during the
5) Patratu Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Limited
remote e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting & voting during the meeting.
Limited 5) NTPC Mining Limited
4. Shareholders/Members can also download NSDL Mobile App "NSDL Speede" facility
6) Hindustan Urvarak & Rasayan Limited 6) Bhartiya Rail Bijlee Company Limited
by scanning the QR code mentioned below for seamless voting experience.
7) Energy Efficiency Services Limited 7) NTPC BHEL Power Projects Private
Limited
Memberships/ Audit Committee: NIL Audit Committee: NIL Audit Committee: NIL
Chairmanship of Stakeholders’ Relationship Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee: 1. Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee: NIL
committees across Committee: 1. Northen Eastern Energy Efficiency Services Limited
all public Electric Power Corpn Ltd (Chairman)
companies* (Member)
Number of shares Nil Nil 5266 Individual 1. Users who have opted for CDSL Easi / Easiest facility, can login through their existing
held in NTPC Ltd. as Shareholders holding user id and password. Option will be made available to reach e-Voting page without
on 31.03.2024 securities in demat any further authentication. The users to login Easi /Easiest are requested to visit
mode with CDSL CDSL website www.cdslindia.com and click on login icon & New System Myeasi Tab
Attendance in Board No. of meetings held: 15 No. of meetings held: 5 No. of meetings held: 2
and then use your existing my easi username & password.
Meetings held No. of meetings attended: 14 No. of meetings attended: 5 No. of meetings attended: 2
during 2023-24
*In line with Regulation 26 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations 2015, membership of the Audit Committee and Stakeholders'
Relationship Committee have only been taken into consideration.
668 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 669
4. Your User ID details are given below:
Type of shareholders Login Method
Manner of holding shares i.e. Demat Your User ID is:
2. After successful login the Easi / Easiest user will be able to see the e-Voting option
(NSDL or CDSL) or Physical
for eligible companies where the e-voting is in progress as per the information
provided by company. On clicking the e-voting option, the user will be able to see e- a) For Members who hold shares in 8 Character DP ID followed by 8 Digit Client ID
Voting page of the e-Voting service provider for casting your vote during the remote demat account with NSDL. For example if your DP ID is IN300*** and Client ID is 12******
e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting & voting during the meeting. Additionally, then your user ID is IN300***12******.
there is also links provided to access the system of all e-Voting Service Providers, so b) For Members who hold shares in 16 Digit Beneficiary ID
that the user can visit the e-Voting service providers' website directly. demat account with CDSL. For example if your Beneficiary ID is 12************** then your
3. If the user is not registered for Easi/Easiest, option to register is available at CDSL user ID is 12**************
website www.cdslindia.com and click on login & New System Myeasi Tab and then c) For Members holding shares in EVEN Number followed by Folio Number registered with the
click on login option. Physical Form. company
4. Alternatively, the user can directly access e-Voting page by providing Demat Account For example if folio number is 001*** and EVEN is 101456 then
Number and PAN No. from a e-Voting link available on user ID is 101456001***
https://evoting.cdslindia.com/Evoting/EvotingLogin home page. The system will
authenticate the user by sending OTP on registered Mobile & Email as recorded in 5. Password details for shareholders other than Individual shareholders are given below:
the Demat Account. After successful authentication, user will be able to see the e-
a) If you are already registered for e-Voting, then you can use your existing password to login and cast your
Voting option where the e-voting is in progress and also able to directly access the
vote.
system of all e-Voting Service Providers.
b) If you are using NSDL e-Voting system for the first time, you will need to retrieve the ‘initial password’
Individual You can also login using the login credentials of your demat account through your
which was communicated to you. Once you retrieve your ‘initial password’, you need to enter the ‘initial
Shareholders (holding Depository Participant registered with NSDL/CDSL for e-Voting facility. upon logging in,
password’ and the system will force you to change your password.
securities in demat you will be able to see e-Voting option. Click on e-Voting option, you will be redirected to
mode) login through NSDL/CDSL Depository site after successful authentication, wherein you can see e-Voting c) How to retrieve your ‘initial password’?
their depository feature. Click on company name or e-Voting service provider i.e. NSDL and you will be
(i) If your email ID is registered in your demat account or with the company, your ‘initial password’ is
participants redirected to e-Voting website of NSDL for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting
communicated to you on your email ID. Trace the email sent to you from NSDL from your mailbox.
period or joining virtual meeting & voting during the meeting.
Open the email and open the attachment i.e. a .pdf file. Open the .pdf file. The password to open the
Important note: Members who are unable to retrieve User ID/ Password are advised to use Forget User ID / Forget .pdf file is your 8 digit client ID for NSDL account, last 8 digits of client ID for CDSL account or folio
Password option available at abovementioned website. number for shares held in physical form. The .pdf file contains your ‘User ID’ and your ‘initial password’.
Helpdesk for Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode for any technical issues related to login (ii) If your email ID is not registered, please follow steps mentioned below in “Process for those shareholders
through Depository i.e. NSDL and CDSL. whose email ids are not registered”.
Login type Helpdesk details
6. If you are unable to retrieve or have not received the “Initial password” or have forgotten your password:
Individual Shareholders holding Members facing any technical issue in login can contact NSDL helpdesk by
a) Click on “Forgot User Details/Password?”(If you are holding shares in your demat account with NSDL or
securities in demat mode with NSDL sending a request at e-voting@nsdl.co.in or call at 022 - 4886 7000 and 022
CDSL) option available on www.evoting.nsdl.com.
- 2499 7000
b) Physical User Reset Password?” (If you are holding shares in physical mode) option available on
Individual Shareholders holding Members facing any technical issue in login can contact CDSL helpdesk by
www.evoting.nsdl.com.
securities in demat mode with CDSL sending a request at helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com or contact at toll free
no. 1800 22 55 33 c) If you are still unable to get the password by aforesaid two options, you can send a request at
evoting@nsdl.co.in mentioning your demat account number/folio number, your PAN, your name and your
B) Login Method for e-Voting and joining virtual meeting for shareholders other than Individual shareholders holding registered address etc.
securities in demat mode and shareholders holding securities in physical mode.
d) Members can also use the OTP (One Time Password) based login for casting the votes on the e-Voting
How to Log-in to NSDL e-Voting website?
system of NSDL.
1. Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the following URL:
7. After entering your password, tick on Agree to “Terms and Conditions” by selecting on the check box.
https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/ either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile.
8. Now, you will have to click on “Login” button.
2. Once the home page of e-Voting system is launched, click on the icon "Login" which is available under
'Shareholder/Member' section. 9. After you click on the “Login” button, Home page of e-Voting will open.
3. A new screen will open. You will have to enter your User ID, your Password/OTP and a Verification Code as
Step 2: Cast your vote electronically and join General Meeting on NSDL e-Voting system.
shown on the screen.
How to cast your vote electronically and join General Meeting on NSDL e-Voting system?
Alternatively, if you are registered for NSDL e-services i.e. IDEAS, you can log-in at https://eservices.nsdl.com/
with your existing IDEAS login. Once you log-in to NSDL eservices after using your log-in credentials, click on e- 1. After successful login at Step 1, you will be able to see all the companies “EVEN” in which you are holding shares and
Voting and you can proceed to Step 2 i.e. Cast your vote electronically. whose voting cycle and General Meeting is in active status.
670 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 671
2. Select “EVEN” of company for which you wish to cast your vote during the remote e-Voting period and casting your 3. Members who have voted through Remote e-Voting will be eligible to attend the EGM/AGM. However, they will not
vote during the General Meeting. For joining virtual meeting, you need to click on “VC/OAVM” link placed under be eligible to vote at the EGM/AGM.
“Join Meeting”.
4. The details of the person who may be contacted for any grievances connected with the facility for e-Voting on the
3. Now you are ready for e-Voting as the Voting page opens. day of the EGM/AGM shall be the same person mentioned for Remote e-voting.
4. Cast your vote by selecting appropriate options i.e. assent or dissent, verify/modify the number of shares for which
B. GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR SHAREHOLDERS JOINING MEETING, REMOTE E-VOTING AND E-VOTING DURING
you wish to cast your vote and click on “Submit” and also “Confirm” when prompted.
AGM:
5. Upon confirmation, the message “Vote cast successfully” will be displayed.
1. The Members can join the AGM in the VC/OAVM mode 15 minutes before and after the scheduled time of the
6. You can also take the printout of the votes cast by you by clicking on the print option on the confirmation page. commencement of the Meeting by following the procedure mentioned in the Notice. The facility of participation
at the AGM through VC/OAVM will be made available to at least 1000 members on first come first served basis.
7. Once you confirm your vote on the resolution, you will not be allowed to modify your vote.
This will not include large Shareholders (Shareholders holding 2% or more shareholding), Promoters, Institutional
Investors, Directors, Key Managerial Personnel, the Chairpersons of the Audit Committee, Nomination and
General Guidelines for shareholders
Remuneration Committee and Stakeholders Relationship Committee, Auditors etc. who are allowed to attend
1. Institutional shareholders (i.e. other than individuals, HUF, NRI etc.) are required to send scanned copy (PDF/JPG
the AGM without restriction on account of first come first served basis.
Format) of the relevant Board Resolution/ Authority letter etc. with attested specimen signature of the duly authorized
2. The voting period begins on Sunday, 25th August, 2024 at 9:00 AM and ends on Wednesday, 28th August, 2024
signatory(ies) who are authorized to vote, to the Scrutinizer by e-mail to asacs2022@gmail.com with a copy marked
at 5:00 PM. During this period, shareholders of the Company, holding shares either in physical form or in
to evoting@nsdl.co.in. Institutional shareholders (i.e. other than individuals, HUF, NRI etc.) can also upload their
dematerialized form, as on the cut-off date of Thursday, 22nd August 2024 may cast their vote electronically.
Board Resolution / Power of Attorney / Authority Letter etc. by clicking on “Upload Board Resolution / Authority
The e-voting module shall be disabled by NSDL for voting thereafter. The voting rights of Members shall be in
Letter” displayed under “e-Voting” tab in their login.
proportion to their share of the paid-up equity share capital of the Company as on the cut-off date.
2. It is strongly recommended not to share your password with any other person and take utmost care to keep your
3. Shareholders who have voted through Remote e-Voting will be eligible to attend the meeting. However, they
password confidential. Login to the e-voting website will be disabled upon five unsuccessful attempts to key in the
will not be eligible to vote at the AGM.
correct password. In such an event, you will need to go through the “Forgot User Details/Password?” or “Physical
User Reset Password?” option available on www.evoting.nsdl.com to reset the password. 4. Shareholders are encouraged to join the Meeting through Laptops / IPads for better experience.
In case of any queries, you may refer the Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) for Shareholders and e-voting user 5. Further, shareholders will be required to allow Camera and use Internet with a good speed to avoid any
manual for Shareholders available at the download section of www.evoting.nsdl.com or call on.: 022 - 4886 7000 disturbance during the meeting.
and 022 - 2499 7000 or send a request to Ms. Pallavi Mhatre, Senior Manager at evoting@nsdl.co.in
6. Please note that Participants Connecting from Mobile Devices or Tablets or through Laptop connecting via
Mobile Hotspot may experience Audio/Video loss due to fluctuation in their respective network. It is therefore
Process for those shareholders whose email ids are not registered with the depositories for procuring user id and
recommended to use Stable Wi-Fi or LAN Connection to mitigate any kind of aforesaid glitches.
password and registration of e mail ids for e-voting for the resolutions set out in this notice:
7. Shareholders who would like to express their views/ask questions during the meeting may register themselves
1. In case shares are held in physical mode please provide Folio No., Name of shareholder, scanned copy of the share
as speakers by sending their request in advance at least seven (7) days prior to meeting mentioning their
certificate (front and back), PAN (self attested scanned copy of PAN card), AADHAR (self attested scanned copy of
name, Demat account number/folio number, email id, mobile number at agm2024@ntpc.co.in. Request given
Aadhar Card) by email to agm2024@ntpc.co.in.
on other email IDs will not be considered. The Company reserves the right to restrict the number of questions
2. In case shares are held in demat mode, please provide DPID-CLID (16 digit DPID + CLID or 16 digit beneficiary ID),
and number of speakers, depending upon availability of time as may be appropriate for smooth conduct of the
Name, client master or copy of Consolidated Account statement, PAN (self attested scanned copy of PAN card),
AGM. Members who are not able to join this Meeting over video conferencing will be able to view the live
AADHAR (self attested scanned copy of Aadhar Card) to agm2024@ntpc.co.in. If you are an Individual shareholders
webcast of proceedings of AGM on the website of the Company. The shareholders who do not wish to speak
holding securities in demat mode, you are requested to refer to the login method explained at step 1 (A) i.e. Login
during the AGM but have queries in respect of items of businesses proposed to be transacted at the meeting,
method for e-Voting and joining virtual meeting for Individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode.
may send their queries in advance 7 (Seven) days prior to meeting mentioning their name, demat account
3. Alternatively shareholder/members may send a request to evoting@nsdl.co.in for procuring user id and password number/folio number, email id, mobile number at agm2024@ntpc.co.in. These queries will be replied by the
for e-voting by providing above mentioned documents. company suitably by email.
4. In terms of SEBI Master circular dated 11th July, 2023 on e-Voting facility provided by Listed Companies, Individual 8. Those shareholders who have registered themselves as speakers will only be allowed to express their views/ask
shareholders holding securities in demat mode are allowed to vote through their demat account maintained with questions during the meeting.
Depositories and Depository Participants. Shareholders are required to update their mobile number and email ID 9. Only those shareholders, who are present in the AGM through VC/OAVM facility and did not cast their vote on
correctly in their demat account in order to access e-Voting facility. the Resolutions through remote e-Voting and are otherwise not barred from doing so, shall be eligible to vote
through e-Voting system available during the AGM.
THE INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS FOR E-VOTING ON THE DAY OF THE EGM/AGM ARE AS UNDER:-
10. If any Votes are cast by the shareholders through the e-voting available during the AGM and if the same
1. The procedure for e-Voting on the day of the EGM/AGM is same as the instructions mentioned above for remote e-
shareholders have not participated in the meeting through VC/OAVM facility, then the votes cast by such
voting.
shareholders shall be considered invalid as the facility of e-voting during the meeting is available only to the
2. Only those Members/ shareholders, who will be present in the EGM/AGM through VC/OAVM facility and have not shareholders attending the meeting.
casted their vote on the Resolutions through remote e-Voting and are otherwise not barred from doing so, shall be
eligible to vote through e-Voting system in the EGM/AGM.
672 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 673
Independent Assurance Statement • Completion of assurance statement for inclusion in the report reflecting the verification, findings, and conclusion of the
disclosure’s assurance.
Level of Assurance
Independent Assurance Statement on NTPC Limited’s Integrated Annual Report • Reasonable and;
Introduction and Objective of Work • Limited (the level of assurance obtained in work performed in a limited assurance engagement is lower than for a
reasonable assurance engagement, but is higher than no assurance).
BUREAU VERITAS has been engaged by NTPC Limited (hereinafter abbreviated as “NTPC”) to conduct an independent assurance
of the identified sustainability indicators in its Integrated Annual Report (“IR”) for the reporting period from 01.04.2023 to
List of GRI disclosure assured at a reasonable level:
31.03.2024. This assurance statement applies to the related information included within the scope of work described below.
GRI Index-2021 Disclosure
Intended User
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization
The assurance statement is made solely for “NTPC and its stakeholders” as per the governing contractual terms and conditions
302-3 Energy Intensity
of the assurance engagement contract between “NTPC” and “Bureau Veritas”. To the extent that the law permits, we owe no
responsibility and do not accept any liability to any party other than “NTPC” for the work we have performed for this assurance 303-4 Water discharge
report or our conclusions stated in the paragraph below.
303-5 Water consumption
Reporting Criteria 305-1 Energy direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions
In preparing the Integrated Annual Report, FY2023-24, NTPC has reported in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions
Standard 2021 (hereinafter abbreviated as “GRI Standard”) for Sustainability Indicators for the FY2023-24.
305-4 GHG emissions intensity
Reporting period 306-3 Waste Generated
01st April 2023 to 31st March 2024 306-4 Waste diverted from disposal
Assurance Standards Used 306-5 Waste directed to disposal
Bureau Veritas conducted the assurance in accordance with: 403-1 Workers’ representation in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees
403-2 Hazard identifications, risk assessments and incident investigations
Assurance requirements of International Federation of Accountants’ (IFAC) International Standard on Assurance Engagement
(ISAE) 3000 (revised) – Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information’. 403-3 Occupational health services
o Reasonable and limited level of assurance under ISAE 3000 requires us to plan and perform procedures to obtain sufficient 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety
appropriate evidence on conformity of sustainability performance disclosures as per GRI Standards, 2021. 403-6 Promotion of worker health
o Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements (ISAE 3410) for the GHG emission data. 403-8 Workers covered by an OHS management system
o The requirement of GRI Standard, we have reviewed the information presented in the Report against the characteristics 403-9 Work-related injuries
of relevance, completeness, reliability, neutrality and understandability. 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining may
Scope and Boundary of Assurance be at risk
413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs
The scope of assurance involves evaluating the sustainability performance of non-financial disclosures for the period from
April 1, 2023, to March 31, 2024, based on the GRI Standard.
List of GRI disclosure assured at a limited level:
Reporting Boundary: This report includes NTPC Limited’s business activities (within India) including its Joint Ventures &
Subsidiaries, focusing on Electricity Generation (Thermal, Renewables, Hydro), Consultancy, Business Development, R&D GRI Index-2021
(NETRA), and Energy Trading pertaining to entities including NTPC Ltd., NSPCL, BRBCL, NEEPCO, THDC, NGEL, APCPL, MUNPL, 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume
NTECL, RGPPL, PVUNL and JPL.
301-2 Recycled input materials used
The Scope of Assurance for Sustainability Indicators based on GRI Standard includes:
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption
• An assessment of the procedures or approaches followed for data compilation and reporting of the sustainability 303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts
performance of non-financial disclosures for specific operations.
303-3 Water withdrawal
• Testing, on a sample basis, of evidence supporting the data.
305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS)
• Verification of the sample data evidence and information on selected material topics reported at the above-mentioned
305-7 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions
operations for the defined reporting period.
305-3 Scope 3 GHG emission for Employee Commute, Business travel and upstreamtransportation and
• Assessment of the suitability between the backup data for the selected sustainability performance of non-financial distribution
disclosures and the information presented in IR.
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover
674 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 675
GRI Index-2021 Limitations and Exclusions
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees The assurance is limited to the above-mentioned scope of work and excludes the information relating to:
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee • Data related to the Company’s financial performance disclosures.
404-2 Programmes for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programmes • Activities and practices followed outside the defined assurance period stated hereinabove.
404-3 Percentage of employees received regular performance and career development reviews
• Positional statements, expressions of opinion, belief, aim, or future intention by “NTPC” and statements of future
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees commitment.
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men • The assurance does not extend to the activities and operations of “NTPC” outside of the scope and geographical boundaries
406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken mentioned in the report as well as the operations undertaken by any other entity that may be associated with or have a
business relationship with “NTPC”.
408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor
• Compliance with any Environmental, Social, and legal issues related to the regulatory authority.
409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor
410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures • Any of the statements related to company aspects or reputation.
411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples Our Findings
418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data • Nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the sustainability disclosure in the IR based on GRI standard are
inaccurate or that the information included therein is not fairly stated.
The Methodology Adopted for Assurance
• It is our opinion that Company has established appropriate systems for the collection, aggregation, and analysis of data
Bureau Veritas’ sustainability assurance process involves specified procedures to obtain evidence regarding the accuracy and
on Sustainability/Non-Financial performance disclosures.
reliability of the data provided related to general and topic-specific standard disclosures. The nature, timing, and extent of
procedures selected depend on the data and evidence provided, including the verification of the associated risks with the • The sustainability disclosure in the IR provides a fair representation of the Company’s activities as included therein.
material topics of the selected sustainability related non-financial disclosures and their relevance for the reporting period.
• The information is presented in a clear, understandable, and accessible manner, and allows readers to form a balanced
While assessing the associated risks, internal strategy is being considered during the preparation of the report to design the
opinion over the Company and status during the reporting period.
assurance procedure and validate their appropriateness to the possible extent.
Management Responsibilities
As per the scope of the assurance, sample evidence, information, and explanations that were considered necessary in relation
to the assurance scope and accordingly conclusions have been made as mentioned below: NTPC is completely responsible for the report contents, identification of material topics, and data reporting structure. The
selection of reporting criteria, reporting period, reporting boundary, monitoring, and measurement of data, preparation,
• Assessed the report preparation in accordance with GRI Standard parameters applicable to NTPC operations.
and presentation of information for the report are the sole responsibility of the management of “NTPC”. Bureau Veritas (BV)
• Evaluated the appropriateness of various assumptions used for data estimation and reviewed the report to ensure that was not involved in the drafting or preparation of the report and any other backup data for the reporting period. The
there is no misrepresentation of disclosures within the scope of assurance. responsibility of BV was to provide reasonable independent assurance for the sustainability performance of non-financial
disclosures as described in the scope of assurance.
• Assessed adherence to the GRI Standard, including the principles of materiality, inclusivity, and responsiveness, and
evaluated the systems used for data compilation and reporting. The said assessment is properly based on the assumption that the data and information provided in the report are proper
and without any discrepancy. Bureau Veritas shall not be held liable or responsible for any type of decision a person or entity
• Verified systems and procedures for quantification, collation, and analysis of sustainability performance disclosures
would make based on this assurance statement. While reading the assurance statement, stakeholders shall recognize and
included in the report through site visits.
accept the limitations and scope as mentioned above.
• Discussed with corporate office officials to understand sustainability risks and opportunities, NTPC’s strategy to address
Uncertainty
them, and assessed the month-wise data for similarity, reliability, and accuracy.
The reliability of assurance is subject to uncertainty(ies) that is inherent in the assurance process. Uncertainties stem from
• Evaluated the stakeholder engagement process through interactions with relevant internal stakeholders and review of
limitations in quantification models used, assumptions, or data conversion factors used or may be present in the estimation
related documentation. Reviewed the materiality assessment process and the processes for collection, compilation, and
of data used to arrive at results. Our conclusions with respect to this assurance are naturally subject to any inherent
reporting of sustainability performance disclosures at the corporate and plant levels.
uncertainty(ies) involved in the assurance process.
• Reviewed claims and data streams to determine the accuracy of statements in the report and the reliability of specified
Statement of Independence, Impartiality, and Competence
sustainability performance – Non-Financial Disclosure Assurance. Executed an audit trail of claims and data streams to
determine the accuracy of data collection, transcription, and aggregation. Bureau Veritas is an independent professional services company that specializes in Quality, Health, Safety, Social, and
Environmental Management with almost 190 years of history in providing independent assurance services. Bureau Veritas
• Assessed the reporting procedures for GHG emissions and evaluated the appropriateness and reliability of various
has implemented a Code of Ethics across the business to maintain high ethical standards among staff in their day-to-day
assumptions and calculations adopted for data estimation.
business activities. We are particularly vigilant in the prevention of conflicts of interest.
• Reviewed the report, supporting evidence, and documented data to ensure that there is no misrepresentation of
No member of the assurance team has a business relationship with “NTPC”, its Directors, Managers, or officials beyond that
disclosures within the scope of assurance and findings.
required of this assignment. We have conducted this verification independently and there has been no conflict of interest.
• Discussed data presented in the report and the associated backup data with concerned personnel at NTPC Headquarters
Competence
(Corporate Level) and plant sites including Ratnagiri (RGPPL), Kudgi, Sipat, Bongaigaon and Barh.
The assurance team has extensive experience in conducting assurance over environmental, social, ethical, and health &
676 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 677
safety information, systems and processes an excellent understanding of Bureau Veritas standard methodology for the Independent Assurance Statement
Assurance of Sustainability Reports.
Restriction on use of Our Report
Our assurance report has been prepared and addressed to the Board of Directors of the Company at the request of the Assurance Statement on NTPC Limited’s Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report Core
company solely to assist the company in reporting on the Company’s Sustainability performance and activities. Accordingly,
Introduction and Objective of Work
we accept no liability to anyone, other than the Company. Our deliverables should not be used for any other purpose or by
any person other than the addressees of our deliverables. The Firm neither accepts nor assumes any duty of care or liability BUREAU VERITAS has been engaged by NTPC Limited (hereinafter abbreviated as “NTPC”) to conduct an independent assurance
for any other purpose or to any other party to whom our Deliverables are shown or into whose hands it may come without of the Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report Core (hereinafter abbreviated as “BRSR Core”), consisting of the Key
our prior consent in writing. Performance Indicators (KPIs) under Environment, Social and Governance (ESG) attributes, which are mentioned in Annexure
I, as prescribed under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) Circular dated 12th July, 2023.
Intended User
The assurance statement is made solely for “NTPC and its stakeholders” as per the governing contractual terms and conditions
Sd/- Sd/-
of the assurance engagement contract between “NTPC” and “Bureau Veritas”. To the extent that the law permits, we owe no
Amit Kumar Munji Rama Mohan Rao
responsibility and do not accept any liability to any party other than “NTPC” for the work we have performed for this assurance
Lead Assurer Technical Reviewer
report or our conclusions stated in the paragraph below.
Bureau Veritas India Private Limited Bureau Veritas India Private Limited
Reporting Criteria
New Delhi, India Hyderabad, India Reporting Framework based on BRSR Core, Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report as per Annexure 1 of the SEBI
Date: July 27, 2024 Date: July 27, 2024 circular (SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-SEC-2/P/CIR/2023/122,) dated July 12, 2023) BRSR Core KPIs.
The reported information of BRSR core based on following nine ESG attributes:
1. Green-house gas (GHG) footprint
2. Water footprint
3. Energy footprint
4. Embracing circularity - details related to waste management by the entity
5. Enhancing Employee Wellbeing and Safety
6. Enabling Gender Diversity in Business
7. Enabling Inclusive Development
8. Fairness in Engaging with Customers and Suppliers
9. Open-ness of business
Assurance Standards Used
Bureau Veritas conducted reasonable assurance of BRSR Core in accordance with the requirements of the International
Federation of Accountants (IFAC), International Standard on Assurance Engagement (ISAE) 3000 (Revised) Reasonable
Assurance & GHG as per “Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements” ISAE 3410. Under this standard, Bureau
Veritas has reviewed the information presented in the report against the characteristics of relevance, completeness, materiality,
reliability, neutrality, and understandability.
Scope and Boundary of Assurance
The scope of assurance involves evaluating the sustainability performance of non-financial disclosures for the period from
1st April 2023 to 31st March 2024, based on BRSR Core requirements.
Reporting Boundary: This report includes NTPC Limited’s business activities (within India) including its Joint Ventures &
Subsidiaries, focusing on Electricity Generation (Thermal, Renewables, Hydro), Consultancy, Business Development, R&D
(NETRA), and Energy Trading pertaining to entities including NTPC Ltd., NSPCL, BRBCL, NEEPCO, THDC, NGEL, APCPL, MUNPL,
NTECL, RGPPL, PVUNL and JPL.
The Scope of Assurance for BRSR Core includes:
• An assessment of the procedures or approaches followed for data compilation and reporting of the sustainability
performance of non-financial disclosures for specific operations.
678 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 679
• Testing, on a sample basis, of evidence supporting the data. Limitations and Exclusions
• Verification of the sample data evidence and information on selected material topics reported at the above-mentioned The assurance is limited to the above-mentioned scope of work and excludes the information relating to:
operations for the defined reporting period.
• Data related to the Company’s financial performance disclosures.
• Assessment of the suitability between the backup data for the selected sustainability performance of non-financial
• Activities and practices followed outside the defined assurance period stated hereinabove.
disclosures and the information presented in the BRSR Core requirement.
• Positional statements, expressions of opinion, belief, aim, or future intention by “NTPC” and statements of future
• Completion of assurance statement for inclusion in the report reflecting the verification, findings, and conclusion of the
commitment.
disclosure’s assurance.
• The assurance does not extend to the activities and operations of “NTPC” outside of the scope and geographical boundaries
The Methodology Adopted for Assurance
mentioned in the report as well as the operations undertaken by any other entity that may be associated with or have a
Bureau Veritas’ sustainability assurance process involves specified procedures to obtain evidence regarding the accuracy and business relationship with “NTPC”.
reliability of the data provided related to general and topic-specific standard disclosures. The nature, timing, and extent of
• Compliance with any Environmental, Social, and legal issues related to the regulatory authority.
procedures selected depend on the data and evidence provided, including the verification of the associated risks with the
material topics of the selected sustainability related non-financial disclosures and their relevance for the reporting period. • Any of the statements related to company aspects or reputation.
While assessing the associated risks, internal strategy is being considered during the preparation of the report to design the
Our Findings
assurance procedure and validate their appropriateness to the possible extent.
• Nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the BRSR disclosures are inaccurate or that the information included
As per the scope of the assurance, sample evidence, information, and explanations that were considered necessary in relation
therein is not fairly stated.
to the assurance scope and accordingly conclusions have been made as mentioned below:
• It is our opinion that Company has established appropriate systems for the collection, aggregation, and analysis of data
• Assessed the report preparation in accordance with BRSR Core parameters applicable to NTPC operations.
on Sustainability/Non-Financial performance disclosures in the BRSR.
• Evaluated the appropriateness of various assumptions used for data estimation and reviewed the report to ensure that
• The BRSR disclosure on core parameter provides a fair representation of the Company’s activities as included therein.
there is no misrepresentation of disclosures within the scope of assurance.
• The information is presented in a clear, understandable, and accessible manner, and allows readers to form a balanced
• Assessed adherence to the BRSR framework for Reasonable Assurance of Core parameters, including the principles of
opinion over the Company and status during the reporting period.
materiality, inclusivity, and responsiveness, and evaluated the systems used for data compilation and reporting.
• NTPC’s data and information on BRSR core disclosures for the period of 01 April 2023 to 31 March 2024 included in the
• Verified systems and procedures for quantification, collation, and analysis of sustainability performance disclosures
Report, is, in all material respects, in accordance with the SEBI’s BRSR guidelines.
included in the report through site visits.
Management Responsibilities
• Discussed with corporate office officials to understand sustainability risks and opportunities, NTPC’s strategy to address
NTPC is completely responsible for the report contents, identification of material topics, and data reporting structure. The
them, and assessed the month-wise data for similarity, reliability, and accuracy.
selection of reporting criteria, reporting period, reporting boundary, monitoring, and measurement of data, preparation,
• Evaluated the stakeholder engagement process through interactions with relevant internal stakeholders and review of
and presentation of information for the report are the sole responsibility of the management of “NTPC”. Bureau Veritas (BV)
related documentation. Reviewed the materiality assessment process and the processes for collection, compilation, and
was not involved in the drafting or preparation of the report and any other backup data for the reporting period. The
reporting of sustainability performance disclosures at the corporate and plant levels.
responsibility of BV was to provide reasonable independent assurance for the sustainability performance of non-financial
• Reviewed claims and data streams to determine the accuracy of statements in the report and the reliability of specified disclosures as described in the scope of assurance.
sustainability performance indicators– Non-Financial Disclosure Assurance.
The said assessment is properly based on the assumption that the data and information provided in the report are proper
• Executed an audit trail of claims and data streams to determine the accuracy of data collection, transcription, and and without any discrepancy. Bureau Veritas shall not be held liable or responsible for any type of decision a person or entity
aggregation. would make based on this assurance statement. While reading the assurance statement, stakeholders shall recognize and
accept the limitations and scope as mentioned above.
• Reviewed plans, policies, and practices pertaining to Environmental, Social, and Governance aspects to assess and evaluate
the adequacy and fairness of BRSR Core reporting. Ensured the reports provide a balanced and reasonable representation Uncertainty
of the organization’s positive and negative contributions toward sustainable development.
The reliability of assurance is subject to uncertainty(ies) that is inherent in the assurance process. Uncertainties stem from
• Assessed the reporting procedures for GHG emissions and evaluated the appropriateness and reliability of various limitations in quantification models used, assumptions, or data conversion factors used or may be present in the estimation
assumptions and calculations adopted for data estimation. of data used to arrive at results. Our conclusions with respect to this assurance are naturally subject to any inherent
uncertainty(ies) involved in the assurance process.
• Reviewed the report, supporting evidence, and documented data to ensure that there is no misrepresentation of
disclosures within the scope of assurance and findings. Statement of Independence, Impartiality, and Competence
• Discussed data presented in the report and the associated backup data with concerned personnel at NTPC Headquarters Bureau Veritas is an independent professional services company that specializes in Quality, Health, Safety, Social, and
Corporate Level and plant sites including Ratnagiri, Kudgi, Sipat, Bongaigaon, Barh. Environmental Management with almost 190 years of history in providing independent assurance services. Bureau Veritas
has implemented a Code of Ethics across the business to maintain high ethical standards among staff in their day-to-day
• Reviewed sustainability performance of non-financial disclosures data based on data provided for respective units,
business activities. We are particularly vigilant in the prevention of conflicts of interest.
including related backup, site visits to NTPC’s operations and discussions with the concerned personnel.
No member of the assurance team has a business relationship with “NTPC”, its Directors, Managers, or officials beyond that
required of this assignment. We have conducted this verification independently and there has been no conflict of interest.
680 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 681
Competence GRI Index/ UN SDG Index
The assurance team has extensive experience in conducting assurance over environmental, social, ethical, and health &
safety information, systems and processes an excellent understanding of Bureau Veritas standard methodology for the
Assurance of Sustainability Reports.
Disclosure Indicator Page No.
Restriction on use of Our Report
2-1 Organizational Details 2, 3, 4, 255 (BRSR)
Our Reasonable assurance report has been prepared and addressed to the Board of Directors of the Company at the request
Name of the organization
of the company solely to assist the company in reporting on the Company’s Sustainability performance and activities.
Location of headquarters
Accordingly, we accept no liability to anyone, other than the Company. Our deliverables should not be used for any other
purpose or by any person other than the addressees of our deliverables. The Firm neither accepts nor assumes any duty of Location of operations
care or liability for any other purpose or to any other party to whom our Deliverables are shown or into whose hands it may
Ownership and legal form
come without our prior consent in writing.
Nature of ownership and legal form
2-2 Entities included in the organization’s sustainability reporting 2, 255-256 (BRSR)
List all entities included in its sustainable reportingThis includes subsidiaries, joint
Sd/- Sd/- ventures, and affiliates, including joint interests.
Amit Kumar Munji Rama Mohan Rao If the organization has audited consolidated financial statements or financial information
Lead Assurer Technical Reviewer filed on public record, specify the differences between the list of entities included in its
Bureau Veritas India Private Limited Bureau Veritas India Private Limited financial reporting and the list included in its sustainability reporting; if the organization
consists of multiple entities, explain the approach used for consolidating the information,
New Delhi, India Hyderabad, India including: whether the approach involves adjustments to information for minority
Date: July 25, 2024 Date: July 25, 2024 interests
how the approach takes into account mergers, acquisitions, and disposal of entities or
parts of entities
whether and how the approach differs across the disclosures in this Standard and across
material topics.
2-3 Reporting period 2
Date of most recent report
Reporting cycle
Contact point for questions regarding the report
2-4 Restatements of information Not Applicable
Restatement and the effect of any restatements of information given in previous reports,
and the reasons for such restatements
2-5 External assurance 2, 657-667
Describe the policy and practice for seeking external assurance along with if and how
and senior body is involved. If the report has been externally assured, provide
i. the assurance statement,
ii. What has been assured, using which standard and the limitations
iii. describe relationship between the company and the assurance provider
2-6 Activities, value chain and other business relationships 4-8, 26-27, 51-65
The company should disclose sectors of activity, describe their entire value chain, and
describe other business relations. Also, they are to disclose any significant changes which
have occurred since the previous reporting period.
682 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 683
Disclosure Indicator Page No. Disclosure Indicator Page No.
2-7 Employees 136-137 2-11 Chair of the highest governance body 208-220
The company should report the total number of employees with breakdown by gender a. report whether the chair of the highest governance body is also a senior executive
and region. in the organization;
They should also give the following by breakdown into gender and region b. if the chair is also a senior executive, explain their function within the organization’s
management, the reasons for this arrangement, and how conflicts of interest are
i. Permanent Employees
prevented and mitigated.
ii. Temporary Employees
2-12 Role of the highest governance body in overseeing the management of impacts 208-220
iii. full-time employees
a. describe the role of the highest governance body and of senior executives in
iv. Part-time Employees
developing, approving, and updating the organization’s purpose, value or mission
2-8 Workers who are not employees 136-137 statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to sustainable development;
a. report the total number of workers who are not employees and whose work is b. describe the role of the highest governance body in overseeing the organization’s
controlled by the organization and describe: due diligence and other processes to identify and manage the organization’s impacts
i. the most common types of worker and their contractual relationship with the on the economy, environment, and people, including:
organization; i. whether and how the highest governance body engages with stakeholders to
ii. the type of work they perform; support these processes;
b. describe the methodologies and assumptions used to compile the data, including ii. how the highest governance body considers the outcomes of these processes;
whether the number of workers who are not employees is reported: c. describe the role of the highest governance body in reviewing the effectiveness of
i. in head count, full-time equivalent (FTE), or using another methodology; the organization’s processes as described in 2-12-b, and report the frequency of
ii. at the end of the reporting period, as an average across the reporting period, this review
or using another methodology; 2-13 Delegation of responsibility for managing impacts 208-220
c. describe significant fluctuations in the number of workers who are not employees a. describe how the highest governance body delegates responsibility for managing
during the reporting period and between reporting periods. the organization’s impacts on the economy, environment, and people, including:
2-9 Governance structure and composition 208-220 i. whether it has appointed any senior executives with responsibility for the
describe its governance structure, including committees of the highest governance body; management of impacts;
a. list the committees of the highest governance body that are responsible for decision- ii. whether it has delegated responsibility for the management of impacts to other
making on and overseeing the management of the organization’s impacts on the employees;
economy, environment, and people; iii. describe the process and frequency for senior executives or other employees
b. describe the composition of the highest governance body and its committees by: to report back to the highest governance body on the management of the
organization’s impacts on the economy, environment, and people
i. executive and non-executive members;
2-14 Role of the highest governance body in sustainability reporting 208-220
ii. independence;
a. report whether the highest governance body is responsible for reviewing and
iii. tenure of members on the governance body;
approving the reported information, including the organization’s material topics,
iv. number of other significant positions and commitments held by each member,
and if so, describe the process for reviewing and approving the information;
and the nature of the commitments;
b. if the highest governance body is not responsible for reviewing and approving the
v. gender;
reported information, including the organization’s material topics, explain the reason
vi. under-represented social groups; for this.
vii. competencies relevant to the impacts of the organization; 2-15 Conflicts of interest 208-220
viii. stakeholder representation. a. Processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided
2-10 Nomination and selection of the highest governance body 208-220 and managed.
a. describe the nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body b. Whether conflicts of interest are disclosed to stakeholders, including, at a minimum,
and its committees; conflicts of interest relating to:
b. describe the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body i. Cross-board membership;
members, including whether and how the following are taken into consideration: ii. Cross-shareholding with suppliers and other stakeholders;
i. views of stakeholders (including shareholders); iii. Existence of controlling shareholder;
ii. diversity; iv. Related party disclosures.
iii. independence;
iv. competencies relevant to the impacts of the organization.
684 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 685
Disclosure Indicator Page No. Disclosure Indicator Page No.
2-16 Communicating critical concerns 208-220 2-20 Process for determining remuneration 84-89, 139
a. Process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body. a. describe the process for designing its remuneration policies and for determining
b. Nature and total number of critical concerns remuneration, including:
i. Total number and nature of critical concerns that were communicated to the i. whether independent highest governance body members or an independent
highest governance body. remuneration committee oversees the process for determining remuneration;
ii. Mechanism(s) used to address and resolve critical concerns.” ii. how the views of stakeholders (including shareholders) regarding remuneration
are sought and taken into consideration;
2-17 Collective knowledge of highest governance body 208-220
iii. whether remuneration consultants are involved in determining remuneration
a. Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective
and, if so, whether they are independent of the organization, its highest
knowledge of economic, environmental, and social topics.
governance body and senior executives;
2-18 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance 208-220
b. report the results of votes of stakeholders (including shareholders) on remuneration
a. Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s performance with respect
policies and proposals, if applicable
to governance of economic, environmental, and social topics.
2-21 Annual total compensation ratio 84-89, 139
b. Whether such evaluation is independent or a self-assessment, and its frequency.
a. Ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual
c. Actions taken in response to evaluation of the highest governance body’s
in each country of significant operations to the median annual total compensation
performance including changes to the composition of the highest governance body
for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country.
and organizational practices.
b. Ratio of the percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s
2-19 Remuneration policies 84-89
highest- paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median
a. describe the remuneration policies for members of the highest governance body percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the
and senior executives, including: highest-paid individual) in the same country
i. Fixed pay and variable pay, including performance-based pay, equity-based pay, 2-22 Statement on sustainable development strategy 19
bonuses, and deferred or vested shares;
Present a statement from the highest governance body or most senior executive of the
ii. Sign-on bonuses or recruitment incentive payments; organization about the relevance of sustainable development to the organization and
iii. Termination payments; its strategy for contributing to sustainable development
iv. Clawbacks; 2-23 Policy commitments 255-293
v. Retirement benefits, including the difference between benefit schemes and a. describe its policy commitments for responsible business conduct, including:
contribution rates for the highest governance body, senior executives, and all i. the authoritative intergovernmental instruments that the commitments
other employees. reference;
b. How performance criteria in the remuneration policies relate to the highest ii. whether the commitments stipulate conducting due diligence;
governance body’s and senior executives’ objectives for economic, environmental,
iii. whether the commitments stipulate applying the precautionary principle;
and social topics. When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 102-35,
iv. whether the commitments stipulate respecting human rights;
the reporting organization should, if termination payments are used, explain
whether: b. describe its specific policy commitment to respect human rights, including:
mmunicated to workers, business partners, and other relevant parties.
1) notice periods for governance body members and senior executives are different
from those for other employees; i. the internationally recognized human rights that the commitment covers;
2) termination payments for governance body members and senior executives ii. the categories of stakeholders, including at-risk or vulnerable groups, that the
are different from those for other employees; organization gives particular attention to in the commitment;
3) any payments other than those related to the notice period are paid to departing c. provide links to the policy commitments if publicly available, or, if the policy
governance body members and senior executives; commitments are not publicly available, explain the reason for this;
4) any mitigation clauses are included in the termination arrangements d. report the level at which each of the policy commitments was approved within the
organization, including whether this is the most senior level;
e. report the extent to which the policy commitments apply to the organization’s
activities and to its business relationships;
f. describe how the policy commitments are co
686 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 687
Disclosure Indicator Page No. Disclosure Indicator Page No.
2-24 Embedding policy commitments 255-293 2-28 Membership associations 255-293
a. describe how it embeds each of its policy commitments for responsible business The organization shall report industry associations, other membership associations, and
conduct throughout its activities and business relationships, including: national or international advocacy organizations in which it participates in a significant
i. how it allocates responsibility to implement the commitments across different role
levels within the organization; 2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement 28-31
ii. how it integrates the commitments into organizational strategies, operational The organization shall:
policies, and operational procedures; a. describe its approach to engaging with stakeholders, including:
iii. how it implements its commitments with and through its business relationships; i. the categories of stakeholders it engages with, and how they are identified;
iv. training that the organization provides on implementing the commitments ii. the purpose of the stakeholder engagement;
2-25 Processes to remediate negative impacts 255-293 iii. how the organization seeks to ensure meaningful engagement with stakeholders
a. describe commitments to provide for or cooperate in the remediation of negative 2-30 Collective bargaining agreements 88, 33
impacts that the organization identifies it has caused or contributed to;
The organization shall:
b. describe approach to identify and address grievances, including the grievance
a. report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining
mechanisms that the organization has established or participates in;
agreements;
c. describe other processes by which the organization provides for or cooperates in
b. for employees not covered by collective bargaining agreements, report whether
the remediation of negative impacts that it identifies it has caused or contributed
the organization determines their working conditions and terms of employment
to;
based on collective bargaining agreements that cover its other employees or based
d. describe how the stakeholders who are the intended users of the grievance on collective bargaining agreements from other organizations
mechanisms are involved in the design, review, operation, and improvement of these
3-1 Process to determine material topics 28-31
mechanisms;
3-2 List of material topics 32-35
e. describe how the organization tracks the effectiveness of the grievance mechanisms
and other remediation processes, and report examples of their effectiveness,
including stakeholder feedback GRI Standard Disclosure Description Page No.
2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising concerns 255-293 GRI 200: Economic
The organization shall: GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 3-3 Management of material topics 44-47
a. describe the mechanisms for individuals to: 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed
i. seek advice on implementing the organization’s policies and practices for 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and
responsible business conduct; opportunities due to climate change
ii. raise concerns about the organization’s business conduct 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other
2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations 255-293 retirement plans
a. report the total number of significant instances of non-compliance with laws and GRI 202: Market Presence 2016 3-3 Management of material topics 32-35, 277
regulations during the reporting period, and a breakdown of this total by: 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender
i. instances for which fines were incurred; compared to local minimum wage
ii. instances for which non-monetary sanctions were incurred; GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 3-3 Management of material topics 32-35, 109-116
b. report the total number and the monetary value of fines for instances of 2016 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported
noncompliance with laws and regulations that were paid during the reporting period, 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts
and a breakdown of this total by:
GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016 3-3 Management of material topics 105
i. fines for instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations that occurred
204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers
in the current reporting period;
GRI 205: Anti-Corruption 2016 3-3 Management of material topics 41-42
ii. fines for instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations that occurred
205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption
in previous reporting periods;
policies and procedures
c. describe the significant instances of non-compliance;
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken
d. describe how it has determined significant instances of non-compliance
688 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 689
GRI Standard Disclosure Description Page No. GRI Standard Disclosure Description Page No.
GRI 207: Tax 2019 3-3 Management of material topics 45 GRI 400: Social
207-1 Approach to tax GRI 401: Employment 2016 3-3 Management of material topics 138
207-2 Tax governance, control, and risk management 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover
207-3 Stakeholder engagement and management of 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are
concerns not provided to temporary or part time employee
GRI 300: Environment 401-3 Parental leave
GRI 301: Material 2016 3-3 Management of material topics 67-82, 130-134 GRI 402: Labor/Management 3-3 Management of material topics 84-99
301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Relations 2016 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational
changes
301-2 Recycled input materials
GRI 403: Occupational Health 3-3 Management of material topics 94-99
GRI 302: Energy 2016 3-3 Management of material topics 67-82, 130-134
and Safety 2018 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization
changes
302-3 Energy intensity
3-3 Management of material topics
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption
403-1 Occupational health and safety management system
GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018 3-3 Management of material topics 67-82, 130-134
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident
303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource
investigation
303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts
403-3 Occupational health services
303-3 Water withdrawal
403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and
303-4 Water discharge communication on occupational health and safety
303-5 Water consumption 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety
GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016 3-3 Management of material topics 78-81 403-6 Promotion of worker health
304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health
adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high and safety impacts directly linked by business
biodiversity value outside protected areas relationships
304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and
services on biodiversity safety management system
304-3 Habitats protected or restored 403-9 Work-related injuries
GRI 305: Emissions 2016 3-3 Management of material topics 80-138 403-10 Work-related ill health
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 3-3 Management of material topics 91-92
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and
305-4 GHG emissions intensity transition assistance programs
305-5 Reduction of GHG Emissions 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular
305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) performance and career development reviews
305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other GRI 405: Diversity and Equal 3-3 Management of material topics 85-88
significant air emissions Opportunity 2016 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees
GRI 306: Waste 2020 306-3 Waste generated 133-134 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women
306-4 Waste diverted from disposal to men
306-5 Waste directed to disposal GRI 406: Non-Discrimination 2016 3-3 Management of material topics 85-88, 143
GRI 308: Supplier Environmental 3-3 Management of material topics 104-106 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions
taken
Assessment 2016 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using
environmental criteria GRI 407: Freedom of Association 3-3 Management of material topics 88-89
308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and Collective Bargaining 2016 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to
and actions taken freedom of association and collective bargaining
may be at risk
690 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 691
GRI Exclusions for NTPC IAR FY 2023-24
GRI Standard Disclosure Description Page No.
GRI 408: Child Labor 2016 3-3 Management of material topics 88-89
408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for
incidents of child labor
GRI Principle Disclosure Reasons for Exclusions
GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory 3-3 Management of material topics 88-89
Disclosure 201-1 Direct economic b. Where significant, report EVG&D separately at Not applicable.
Labor 2016 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for value generated and distributed country, regional, or market levels, and the
incidents of forced or compulsory labor criteria used for defining significance.
GRI 410: Security Practices 2016 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies 88-89 Disclosure 201-2 Financial a. iii. the financial implications of the risk or In process of calculating financial
or procedures implications and other risks and opportunity before action is taken; implications due to climate
GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous 3-3 Management of material topics 89 opportunities due to climate v. the costs of actions taken to manage the risk change
change
Peoples 2016 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous or opportunity
peoples
Disclosure 202-1 Ratios of a. When a significant proportion of employees are All workers are given wages in
GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 3-3 Management of material topics 89 standard entry level wage by compensated based on wages subject to excess of minimum wage, hence
2016 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or gender compared to local minimum wage rules, report the relevant ratio not applicable.
procedures minimum wage of the entry level wage by gender at significant
locations of operation to the minimum wage.
GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 3-3 Management of material topics 107-119
b. When a significant proportion of other workers
413-1 Operations with local community engagement,
(excluding employees) performing the
impact assessments, and development programmes
organization’s activities are compensated based
GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 3-3 Management of material topics 105-107
on wages subject to minimum wage rules,
2016 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social describe the actions taken to determine whether
criteria these workers are paid above the minimum
414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and wage.
actions taken
c. Whether a local minimum wage is absent or
GRI 415: Public Policy 2016 3-3 Management of material topics 31-35 variable at significant locations of operation, by
415-1 Political contributions gender. In circumstances in which different
minimums can be used as a reference, report
GRI 417: Marketing and Labelling 3-3 Management of material topics 100-103
which minimum wage is being used.
2016 417-1 Requirements for product and service information
d. The definition used for ‘significant locations of
and labeling
operation’
GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 3-3 Management of material topics 100-103
Disclosure 202-2 Proportion of a. Percentage of senior management at significant For senior management, the
418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of
senior management hired from locations of operation that are hired from the hiring is done through central
customer privacy and losses of customer data
the local community local community. examinations. In addition, since
NTPC is spread across India with
b. The definition used for ‘senior management’.
regular transfer of employees,
c. The organization’s geographical definition of
this data is not applicable.
‘local’.
d. The definition used for ‘significant locations of
operation’.
Disclosure 206-1 Legal actions for a. Number of legal actions pending or completed No incidents were reported.
anti-competitive behavior, anti- during the reporting period regarding anti-
trust, and monopoly practices competitive behavior and violations of anti- trust
and monopoly legislation in which the
organization has been identified as a participant.
b. Main outcomes of completed legal actions,
including any decisions or judgements.
692 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 693
GRI Principle Disclosure Reasons for Exclusions GRI Principle Disclosure Reasons for Exclusions
Disclosure 301-3 Reclaimed a. Percentage of reclaimed products and their Not applicable for NTPC, as NTPC Disclosure 416-1 Assessment of a. Percentage of significant product and service Not Applicable
products and their packaging packaging materials for each product category. major product being electricity the health and safety impacts of categories for which health and safety impacts
materials cannot be reclaimed or require product and service categories are assessed for improvement
b. How the data for this disclosure have been
collected. packaging Disclosure 416-2 Incidents of a. Total number of incidents of non-compliance Organization has not identified
non- compliance concerning the with regulations and/or voluntary codes any non- compliance with
Disclosure 302-2 Energy a. Energy consumption outside of the organization, Not applicable for NTPC
health and safety impacts of concerning the health and safety impacts of regulations or voluntary codes
consumption outside of the in joules or multiples.
products and services products and services within the reporting
organization
b. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or
period, by:
calculation tools used.
i. incidents of non-compliance with
c. Source of the conversion factors used.
regulations resulting in a fine or penalty;
Disclosure 303-4 Water discharge d. Priority substances of concern for which Not applicable as all the
ii. incidents of non-compliance with
discharges are treated, including: discharge as per government
regulations resulting in a warning;
norms
i. how priority substances of concern were
iii. incidents of non-compliance with voluntary
defined, and any international standard,
codes.
authoritative list, or criteria used;
Disclosure 417-1 Requirements a. Whether each of the following types of Organization has not identified
ii. the approach for setting discharge limits for
for product and service information is required by the organization’s any non- compliance with
priority substances of concern;
information and labeling procedures for product and service information regulations or voluntary codes
iii. number of incidents of non-compliance with and labeling:
discharge limits.
ii. Content, particularly with regard to
Disclosure 304-3 c. Status of each area based on its condition at the Not monitored substances that might produce an
close of the reporting period. environmental or social impact;
d. Standards, methodologies, and assumptions iii. Safe use of the product or service;
used.
iv. Disposal of the product and environmental
Disclosure 306-3 Significant spills a. Total number and total volume of recorded No incidents were reported. or social impacts;
significant spills.
v. Other (explain).
b. The following additional information for each
b. Percentage of significant product or service
spill that was reported in the organization’s
categories covered by and assessed for
financial statements:
compliance with such procedures.
i. Location of spill;
Disclosure 417-2 Incidents of a. Total number of incidents of non-compliance Organization has not identified
ii. Volume of spill; non- compliance concerning with regulations and/or voluntary codes any non- compliance with
iii. Material of spill, categorized by: oil spills (soil product and service information concerning product and service information and regulations or voluntary codes
or water surfaces), fuel spills (soil or water and labeling labeling, by:
surfaces), spills of wastes (soil or water i. incidents of non-compliance with
surfaces), spills of chemicals (mostly soil or regulations resulting in a fine or penalty;
water surfaces), and other (to be specified ii. incidents of non-compliance with
by the organization). regulations resulting in a warning;
c. Impacts of significant spills. iii. incidents of non-compliance with voluntary
Disclosure 412-1 Human Rights Operations that have been subject to human rights No incidents were reported. codes.
Assessment 2016 reviews or impact assessments Disclosure 417-3 Incidents of a. Total number of incidents of non-compliance Organization has not identified
Disclosure 415-1 Political a. Total monetary value of financial and in-kind Organization does not non- compliance concerning with regulations and/or voluntary codes any non- compliance with
contributions political contributions made directly and contribute to any political marketing communications concerning marketing communications, including regulations or voluntary codes
indirectly by the organization by country and parties. advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by:
recipient/beneficiary. i. incidents of non-compliance with
b. If applicable, how the monetary value of in-kind regulations resulting in a fine or penalty;
contributions was estimated. ii. incidents of non-compliance with
regulations resulting in a warning;
iii. incidents of non-compliance with voluntary
codes.
694 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24 | 695
Notes
......................................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................................................................................
696 | Integrated Annual Report - 2023-24
Board of Directors of NTPC Limited
